[Signal Copy]

From conversations with Oswald, our advisor formed the impression that, unlike the image created by American press, radio and television, she is quite a reasonable and balanced person. At the same time, it is obvious that in undertaking her "investigation," she aims not only to attempt to achieve rehabilitation of her son, but also, in particular, to improve her strained financial situation through publishing her book about him.

Given the delicacy of this entire matter and the position of American authorities, we doubt the advisability of satisfying Oswald's aforementioned request at this time. However, we do not completely rule out such a possibility in the future - depending on our decision regarding a similar official request from the State Department, further developments around the Oswald case, and completion of the Warren Commission's work. In particular, a question may arise about exerting appropriate influence on Oswald's book content (if we have suitable materials, of course) to neutralize possible discussions and rumors about any connections between Oswald himself and the USSR, especially if such assumptions were to openly resurface here. However, judging by the Warren Commission's work, the US government is not interested in the emergence of public discussion on such a sensitive issue for Soviet-American relations and seeks to prevent it. Under these circumstances, providing Oswald's mother with any materials now can only revive unnecessary new noise around the Oswald case. Better to wait.

A. DOBRYNIN

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 139 - 142. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 70
Memo from USSR Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs V.V. Kuznetsov
and KGB Chairman under the USSR Council of Ministers V.E. Semichastny regarding transfer to USA
of photocopies of documents related to L.H. Oswald's stay in the USSR

No. 1234/GS                                                                                                                     April 15, 1964

Secret
CC CPSU
US Secretary of State D. Rusk on March 24 of this year handed our ambassador
T. Dobrynin a note, in which the US government appeals to the Soviet government

183