Signal copy

Oswald said that she was convinced of her son's innocence and intended to prove it. Even if her son was involved in President Kennedy's assassination, she added, he could not have "carried out all this shooting alone": there must be other participants in this matter, whom she intended to uncover. Oswald emphasized that she had very strong suspicions, though not yet proven, that her son was an agent of "one of the US government agencies."

To uncover the whole truth, Oswald continued, she needs possibly more complete materials about her son's stay in the USSR. Her attempt to familiarize herself at the State Department with the materials of consular correspondence with her son transmitted there by the embassy yielded no results: she was made to clearly understand that she should stop attempting to conduct any kind of "independent investigation" of President Kennedy's and her son's murders. However, despite this, Oswald stated that she intended to continue her investigation and see it through to the end, and to publish a well-argued book about the results.

Oswald was told that the embassy could not provide her with any materials. She said to this that she understood the delicate position in which the embassy found itself, especially during the work of the Warren Commission, but hoped that in the future the embassy might perhaps find an opportunity to help her, considering her maternal feelings toward her innocently perished son. No promises were given to Oswald on this account, of course.

Oswald said that some time ago she had made a similar request in a letter addressed to N.S. Khrushchev, but had not yet received a response. She does not rule out that for the successful completion of her investigation she "will have to travel" to the Soviet Union. When asked about what means Oswald uses to conduct her "investigation," she replied that, for example, her trip and stay in Washington is paid for by one of the television companies as a fee for her agreement to appear on this company's program. "Kind people will be found," said Oswald, "who will help me travel to the Soviet Union as well."

To the question about Marina Oswald and her children, Oswald replied that she does not maintain direct contact with them, but she knows that Marina recently rented a new, more spacious house in a town between Dallas and Fort Worth and is now furnishing it. Financially, she is "set for life" as a result of monetary donations received and the sale of some of Lee Oswald's personal belongings; additionally, she receives a monthly pension for her husband in the amount of 148 dollars, and she also has sufficient means to provide education for the children. She does not plan to get a job and apparently will not have any material need for this. (according to data published in the American press, financial assistance to Oswald's wife from various private individuals reached 40 thousand dollars, and the amount received for radio and television appearances and from selling rights to one of the film companies to make a movie using her memories about Oswald totaled 300 thousand dollars).

182