[Signal copy]

US citizen Lee H. Oswald, we cannot proceed without considering possible consequences of such a step from the perspective of state relations with the USA.

Express hope that Russell will correctly understand the motives compelling us under present circumstances to refrain from satisfying his request.

Execute by telegraph.

RGANI. F. 3. O. 16. D. 511. L. 60-61. Original. Typewritten text.

No. 77
Message from US Ambassador to USSR F. Kohler to N.S. Khrushchev regarding the submission of the President's Commission report on the investigation of President J.F. Kennedy's assassination

September 28, 1964

American Embassy
Moscow, USSR

Your Excellency,

It gives me great pleasure to submit for your personal use a copy of the report of the President's Commission on the Investigation of President Kennedy's assassination, which was presented to the President of the United States on September 24, 1964, and published on September 27, 1964. For your convenience, I am also enclosing a Russian translation of the Commission's summary of findings and conclusions.

I am convinced that you will agree that the report of the special Presidential Commission is a document of exceptional significance. As you know, the Commission included distinguished American citizens under the chairmanship of the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Its conclusions regarding the circumstances surrounding the tragic events of last November represent the result of the most thorough and impartial investigation of all available information.

I am convinced that the conclusions of this high Commission will command universal respect and put an end to many unfounded rumors and conjectures regarding the tragic death of President Kennedy, which were so widely circulated throughout the world.

Sincerely yours,
Foy D. Kohler.

[At the bottom of the first page of the translation (p.194) printed "Translation Bureau MFA USSR 29.IX.64. Yu.Vinogradov" and handwritten note in black ballpoint pen "Com.Khrushchev N.S. read. 30.9.64 V.Lebedev."]

195