Special copy

R. Kennedy stipulated that, in expressing this thought, he is not intending to offer his services right now. He himself doesn't yet know what he will become, and hasn't had the opportunity to properly think about his future political fate. But he would like us to keep in mind that what he said is a serious intention, because "we, the Kennedys, don't throw words to the wind." Then R. Kennedy said he wants to give me a color photo with his inscription, where they are photographed together with his late brother the president in the White House. He handed over this photo right away.

I thanked R. Kennedy for everything he said, as well as for the photo, indicating that I, for my part, hope to continue maintaining personal contact with him.

During the subsequent conversation, R. Kennedy reported that President Johnson asked him to remain as Attorney General. He, R. Kennedy, agreed to this, at least until Congress passes the Civil Rights Act[216], which causes major debates in the country and in Congress, and in the preparation of which he, as Attorney General and the president's brother, played the most active role.

R. Kennedy confirmed that there is currently quite a strong movement in the Democratic Party leadership in favor of nominating him as the party's vice presidential candidate. R. Kennedy himself hasn't decided this question for himself personally yet. Firstly, President Johnson hasn't told anyone yet whom he would like to have as his vice president. Much will depend on who will be nominated as candidates for president and vice president from the Republican Party at their convention in July 1964. Secondly, the vice president position in the USA is not an active position. For him, R. Kennedy, this will be especially felt after the unique position he held under his brother-president. Perhaps the only attractive aspect of this position is that it gives certain hopes for the future, when the president is no longer eligible for re-election or doesn't want to run again, and an energetic vice president can more easily become a presidential candidate from their party, as happened with Nixon, or become one of the party leaders.

R. Kennedy also reported that the Democratic Party of his home state Massachusetts would like him to run for governor of that state. Such a position, noted R. Kennedy, provides certain political influence in the party on a national scale and is one of the most attractive for politicians. However, there practically all attention would need to be devoted to internal problems of the state itself, which, of course, after Washington, would hardly be particularly interesting.

In any case, said R. Kennedy in conclusion, I will apparently have to think seriously about my future political fate in the relatively near future. Right now though, he joked, I am completely occupied with the affairs of the entire numerous Kennedy family, where I have now become the de facto head after the death of my elder brother.

A. DOBRYNIN

176