Signal Copy

Rusk says that, as he believes, President Kennedy would like to visit the Soviet Union, and he spoke about this possibility when the appropriate circumstances arise. When a favorable moment comes, such a trip could be made, and this will demonstrate genuine feelings of friendship between our peoples and will contribute to the development of Soviet-American relations. It is important to seek such a favorable moment and make efforts for its emergence.

N.S. Khrushchev says that he agrees with this and speaks in favor of concluding a non-aggression treaty. A treaty or pact of non-aggression between the Warsaw Pact countries and NATO countries is like seltzer water, it changes nothing, no one gains or loses anything, but it has a refreshing effect on public opinion.

Rusk further notes that, as Harriman communicated to N.S. Khrushchev on President Kennedy's instruction, the United States is carefully studying this issue with their advisers. He, Rusk, told A.A. Gromyko that they have several questions regarding this pact, but in a broad sense, the ideas included in the project presented in Geneva are acceptable. The United States supports the provisions of the UN Charter, supports resolving disputed issues peacefully, through negotiations, not using force and not threatening to use force. The American side's questions about the pact mainly concern the purpose of this pact and how it can actually help improve the situation.

Rusk assures N.S. Khrushchev that the United States will consider this proposal most seriously and without delay and notes that he takes into account the Soviet side's statement that, in its opinion, matters of form will not cause difficulties. In his opinion, the non-aggression pact does nothing more than the Kellogg-Briand Pact. If such a pact is concluded while there are a number of unresolved problems, the public will question the value of such a pact. Frankly speaking, Rusk notes, since there are currently a number of unresolved issues, we believe that the non-aggression pact would be better concluded after an agreement is reached on them, rather than at the beginning. There are such serious problems as Berlin and Germany, moreover, one might say that it will be difficult to conclude such a pact if the Laotian question is not finally settled. We, in particular, would also like to address the Laotian question. We believe that it is possible to eliminate this source of danger provided that the parties act in the spirit of the Geneva Agreements and if the USA and USSR work together.

Rusk further notes that his statements regarding the non-aggression pact are preliminary remarks, and they are now conducting thorough consultations with their allies to clearly understand their opinion on this issue, as it would hardly be useful if the USA and England expressed views that do not reflect the viewpoint of all their allies.

36