Special Copy

No. 26
Note from the Chairman of KGB under the Council of Ministers of the USSR V.E. Semichastniy
to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the USSR A.A. Gromyko about L.H. Oswald

No. 3125-s                                                                                                                    November 23, 1963

Top Secret
Copy No. 2

TO THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF THE USSR
Comrade GROMYKO A.A.

In connection with foreign agencies' reports about the arrest by American authorities of Lee Oswald, allegedly involved in the assassination of the US President, I am reporting the following information known to us about him.

Lee Harvey Oswald, born in 1939, is a native and citizen of the USA. He comes from an insurance agent's family. His father died in 1939, his mother lives in Texas. From October 1956, he served in the military in Japan, Taiwan, and the Philippines. In mid-1959, he was demobilized and immediately undertook a tourist trip to various countries, including Finland, where he received permission to enter the USSR for 5 days.

Having arrived in October 1959 in the USSR as a tourist, he appealed to the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR with a petition for accepting him into Soviet citizenship and granting him the opportunity to permanently reside in the USSR¹⁰⁷.

Due to this request being denied, he attempted to commit suicide by cutting a vein in his arm. After recovery, he continued to insist on being granted Soviet citizenship and did not wish to leave the USSR. On October 31, 1959, he visited the US Embassy in Moscow and declared his renunciation of American citizenship.

Considering that Americans previously granted Soviet citizenship, after living in the USSR for some time, were leaving our country, the Committee for State Security and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs submitted a proposal to the CC CPSU not to grant Oswald Soviet citizenship, but only to provide him with the right of temporary residence in the USSR (for one year)¹⁰⁸.

In accordance with the directive of the Council of Ministers of the USSR dated December 1, 1959¹⁰⁹, Oswald was sent to Minsk, where he was provided with a separate apartment and, considering his wishes, was employed at the Minsk Radio Factory. Through the Red Cross, Oswald was provided with material assistance in the amount of 70 rubles per month.

90