[Control copy]

in the USSR and grant him Soviet citizenship. The head of OVIR allowed him to wait in Moscow until receiving a final answer from the Supreme Soviet of the USSR regarding his application.

In a conversation with the interpreter, Oswald stated that if the Supreme Soviet refuses him, he will not leave the USSR anyway and will appeal to the Supreme Soviet again and again until he achieves his goal. "I don't think the Supreme Soviet would be so cruel to me," he said.

On November 5, Oswald, in conversation with the interpreter, said that on October 31 he visited the US Embassy and declared his renunciation of American citizenship and informed them that he would petition the Supreme Soviet of the USSR to accept him into Soviet citizenship. The embassy staff member who received him "showed no particular joy and said that it was his business," and immediately reported this to journalists.

On November 1, 2 and 3, several journalists visited him at the hotel, including Stevens, but he refused to talk with them.

Acting Chief of EMO P. Baranova
Senior Referent Belov

November 6, 1959

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 63. D. 65. L. 97. Original. Typewritten text. Signatures-autographs in blue ink.

No. 91
Note from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko and KGB Chairman 
under the USSR Council of Ministers A.N. Shelepin regarding L.H. Oswald's
petition for Soviet citizenship

No. 3471-Sh                                                                                                               November 27, 1959

Secret

TO CC CPSU

American citizen Lee Harvey Oswald, who is in the USSR as a tourist, has appealed to the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR with a petition for acceptance into Soviet citizenship and permission to permanently reside in the USSR.

Lee Harvey Oswald, born in 1939, a student graduate of an electrical engineering school, arrived in the USSR on October 15 of this year. Upon arrival in Moscow, Oswald initiated a petition for acceptance into Soviet citizenship. Since by the time his visa expired the matter of satisfying Oswald's request had not been resolved, and he was supposed to leave the USSR, Oswald attempted to commit suicide by cutting

229