Signal Copy

N.S. Khrushchev says that communists are revolutionaries. However, our party has always stood against methods of terror, believing that class struggle should be conducted through political means. In his time, after V.I. Lenin's elder brother was executed for participating in an attempt on the tsar's life, Lenin said: "We shall go by a different path," meaning, of course, political struggle.

Further, N.S. Khrushchev says that Kennedy made a strong impression on him. He was a person who, though young, knew how to carry himself and possessed great tact.

Kohler notes that Johnson is somewhat older than Kennedy. He is 55 years old, but like Kennedy, he is a World War II veteran and thus also represents the military and post-war generation.

N.S. Khrushchev says that Kennedy had one important trait - a sense of reality, which cannot be acquired through any diplomatic science.

Kohler notes that Kennedy was a person of great perseverance who, despite his youth, possessed great experience.

N.S. Khrushchev agrees with this and says that from his meeting with Kennedy, he got the impression that he truly had a good grasp of the issues that were being discussed then.

Kohler expresses regret that N.S. Khrushchev is not acquainted with L. Johnson and expresses confidence that Johnson will be liked by N.S. Khrushchev. He is a Texan, an experienced political figure who always worked closely with Kennedy, sharing the same views.

N.S. Khrushchev notes that this is evident if only from the fact that even journalists, who sometimes like to make up things about supposed disagreements between various political figures, never wrote anything of the sort about relations between Kennedy and Johnson.

Further, N.S. Khrushchev asks Kohler, when he meets with the new U.S. president, to convey his best wishes and express hope that good relations will develop between our countries.

Kohler promises to convey N.S. Khrushchev's wishes to Johnson and in conclusion, on his own behalf, thanks N.S. Khrushchev and members of his family for expressing condolences to the family of the late President Kennedy.

Present at the conversation were A.A. Gromyko, head of USA Department of USSR MFA M.N. Smirnovsky, Minister-Counselor of US Embassy Stessel and Embassy Counselor Toon.

Recorded by: V. Sukhodrev

RGANI. F. 52. Op. 1. D. 584. L. 111-114. Original. Typewritten text. Signature-autograph in blue ballpoint pen.

89