Signal copy

recommended him to make this trip to familiarize himself with the works of Soviet artists, as well as their creative views and plans for the future. His trip to the USSR was scheduled for an earlier date, however, according to Walton, it was postponed by President Kennedy due to the arrest of Professor Barghoorn in the USSR.

Walton said that he spoke with the president three days before his assassination. Kennedy, he noted, was full of energy and looked confidently to the future. He intended to devote himself entirely to the election campaign, in whose outcome he had no doubt. At this meeting, the President told Walton that he wanted to make a trip to the USSR after concluding another agreement with N.S. Khrushchev in the field of disarmament.

The assassination of President Kennedy, Walton said, was undoubtedly the result of a major political conspiracy. There may have been only one killer, but there were undoubtedly more accomplices in the president's assassination.

Dallas, Walton continued, is an ideal place for such a crime. The president's assassination there could be blamed on racists, or on Birchers, or on anyone.

The death of Kennedy, as Walton stated, caused confusion in Washington. The assassination shocked Kennedy's inner circle so much that it couldn't come to its senses for a whole day. Robert Kennedy lay in bed all night. For 24 hours after the president's assassination, the country was practically run by Kennedy's national security advisor M. Bundy.

Johnson, according to Walton, is not the person who can implement all of Kennedy's ideas. He is an "agile opportunist" closely connected with big business. Walton expressed concern that as a result of Johnson's arrival in the government, representatives of big business might infiltrate. The most important thing now, in Walton's opinion, is for McNamara to remain as Secretary of Defense, as he fully shares President Kennedy's views on issues of war and peace. It would be bad if his position is taken by some representative of big business. As it seems to me, Walton continued, keeping McNamara as Secretary of Defense is more important than keeping Rusk as Secretary of State.

Walton expressed concern about possible rapprochement between the USA and West Germany, as the US Ambassador in Bonn D. McGhee is "Johnson's man" and, as he knows, has several times expressed disagreement with President Kennedy's policy regarding West Germany.

It is difficult for me, said Walton, to speak firmly now about any plans of President Kennedy's close supporters and, above all, his brother Robert. However, from my stay in the White House in the days after the president's assassination and from conversations with Robert Kennedy, I got the impression that he will remain in the position of Attorney General for some time, and possibly until the end of Johnson's presidential term.

167