[Signal Copy]

now, by all accounts, Rusk himself. Of course, he, Thompson, will remain as before the main advisor to Rusk (with whom he has good personal relations) on Soviet-American relations.

President Johnson generally intends to keep, except for some changes, Kennedy's cabinet. Johnson's immediate assistants in the White House will be his own people, with whom he has long worked.

Regarding Robert Kennedy, about whose further political fate all kinds of speculation are now being made in the capital, he, Thompson, knows that the personal relations between R. Kennedy and Johnson are quite peculiar: they are far from friendship, but they respect each other as experienced, knowledgeable and influential people in the Democratic Party.

In 1960, R. Kennedy barely managed to persuade Johnson to withdraw his presidential candidacy from this party in favor of the now deceased Kennedy and agree instead to the post of vice president. Thompson noted in this connection that this morning he heard from a close friend of Johnson that Johnson yesterday dropped a remark about whether to consider offering R. Kennedy to run in 1964 together with him as vice president. Thompson does not rule out such a possibility in general, although it is definitely difficult to talk about it now. The "Johnson - R. Kennedy" electoral ticket would help Johnson, whose positions are weak in industrial regions and especially in the eastern part of the country, where influential states are located and where the late president's positions were strong. On the other hand, R. Kennedy would thus increase his chances of being elected president in the next election in 1968.

Thompson reported that during a recent trip to Finland, Johnson sent Kennedy a telegram asking whether he should visit Leningrad for 2-3 days, about which he had heard much. On Thompson's advice, Kennedy gave a negative response, as Johnson's visit to Leningrad alone would be incomprehensible to both the Soviet government and US allies. Thompson asked, however, not to reference this anywhere, adding that what he said does not imply any hint that Johnson might soon go to Moscow, as he now needs much time to sort out affairs.

When Thompson expressed his concern about recent events, it was felt that something was bothering him personally as well: during the conversation he dropped a remark that it was he who was the ambassador in Moscow who allowed Oswald's return entry to the USA¹¹⁶.

Agreed with Thompson to continue maintaining mutual contact.

A. Dobrynin

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 328. L. 111 - 118. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

99