Signal Copy

It appears that the US government is not seeking to find ways for a coordinated solution to the German problem and remains practically in its old positions, which essentially align with the position of the most reactionary aggressive forces in West Germany, led by Adenauer, Brandt and other revanchist-minded people. Thus, one of the main sources of the "cold war" is not being eliminated.

The Soviet government would like to sign a German peace treaty and resolve on its basis the issue of West Berlin together with its former allies in World War II. As known from repeated statements of the Soviet government, the resolution of this issue does not pursue goals of advantage for one side or disadvantage for another. The signing of the German treaty will benefit the cause of peace as a whole, benefiting all peoples, including the American people. Soviet proposals on the German question are concrete and clear. They are based on recognition of the existing situation in Europe and Germany - the presence of two sovereign German states: the German Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany.

As for West Berlin specifically, there are no more reasonable and logical proposals than creating a free city of West Berlin with corresponding guarantees of its international status.

I again confirm that the Soviet government stands for the strictest international guarantees for the free city of West Berlin with UN participation. It must be emphasized with all determination that there is no way to avoid the conclusion of a German peace treaty - this issue must be and will be resolved. We would prefer it to be resolved by agreement with western powers.

In order to eliminate the sources of the "cold war", and not only the "cold war", but dangerous sources of a new world war, concrete actions are needed, not just good wishes.

Or take another very important issue. The President speaks about reducing international tension. But how can this be reconciled with the existence of American military bases on foreign territories. It is a fact that the USA has surrounded the Soviet Union and other socialist countries with their military bases. They have essentially occupied South Vietnam, South Korea, Japan, and several other states. Moreover, to this day, as a result of US aggression, the original Chinese territory of Taiwan is still occupied by American forces. In some countries, American troops

a Initially the text read "From this it follows that the US government is not going to seek ways for a coordinated solution to the German problem. President Kennedy essentially remains in old positions on this issue. Thus, one of the main sources of the 'cold war' is not being eliminated. The President's statement essentially aligns with the position of the most reactionary aggressive forces in West Germany, led by Adenauer, Brandt and other revanchist-minded people."
b The word "Japan" is crossed out.

25