Signal Copy

Jackie Kennedy expressed her heartfelt gratitude to N.S. Khrushchev and A.I. Mikoyan for their warm participation in her grief and for A.I. Mikoyan's special trip to the USA to attend her husband's funeral.

Then A.I. Mikoyan attended a reception held at the State Department building by the new US President Lyndon Johnson in honor of heads of state, governments and government delegations who arrived in Washington for J. Kennedy's funeral. During this reception, A.I. Mikoyan had conversations with Secretary of State Rusk, Special Assistant to the Secretary of State L. Thompson, Director of Arms Control Agency Foster, and responsible staff members of the US State Department. At the same reception, A.I. Mikoyan had conversations with French President Charles de Gaulle, Emperor of Ethiopia Haile Selassie, President of Israel Zalman Shazar, Prime Ministers: of Britain Alec Douglas-Home, of Japan - Hayato Ikeda, of Sweden - Tage Erlander, as well as Foreign Ministers: of Japan - Masayoshi Ohira, of Israel - Golda Meir, and also French Ambassador to the USA Herve Alphand, Yugoslav delegation (Petar Stambolić and Koča Popović) and British Labour Party leader Harold Wilson.

The Emperor of Ethiopia in his conversation with A.I. Mikoyan expressed a wish to meet separately, and his request was granted.

26 November 1963

On the morning of November 26, A.I. Mikoyan met with the new US President L. Johnson at the White House. During A.I. Mikoyan's visit to the White House, the President's Press Secretary P. Salinger made an unofficial request to convey to N.S. Khrushchev the most sincere gratitude on behalf of all White House staff and friends of the president for N.S. Khrushchev's visit to the US Embassy in Moscow to personally pay respects to the late president.

During A.I. Mikoyan's conversation with Lyndon B. Johnson, the American side was also represented by US Deputy Secretary of State for Political Affairs A. Harriman, Special Assistant to the Secretary of State L. Thompson, Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs M. Bundy, Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs W. Tyler and interpreter Akalovsky.

From the Soviet side, the meeting was attended by USSR Ambassador to the USA A.F. Dobrynin, member of the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs Board and Head of the USA Department M.N. Smirnovsky, and interpreter V.M. Sukhodrev.

After the meeting, which lasted about an hour, A.I. Mikoyan stated to correspondents:

172