Signal copy

to reach agreements in the near future, to conclude certain agreements, and this will provide substantial assistance in solving disarmament problems and improve the situation regarding relations between NATO and Warsaw Pact countries. It is difficult to count on comprehensive, decisive disarmament measures, but agreement can be reached on a number of issues. This will allow us to gain momentum towards solving the disarmament problem. Whatever might be resolved regarding agreements in Europe, everything still mainly depends on solving the disarmament problem, and if this is accomplished, it will be a fundamental improvement for both the capitalist West and socialist East.

It seems to me that the governments existing today have inherited the burden of post-war period problems. Each side brings the past into their approach to German and Berlin issues. Immediately after the war, we withdrew our troops from East Germany's territory and moved some units into West Berlin. We did this in the interests of reaching agreement, although at the time some thought that such a solution might lead to complications, and there were voices suggesting we should block the corridor to West Berlin. We did not insist on this before the Soviet government, as it could have been interpreted as a lack of trust in the Soviet Union, our military ally during those years. Then we experienced the blockade, later there was an agreement on access routes, and we proceeded from the position that trust in the Soviet government must be maintained. We still believe that we must seek ways to strengthen such trust. Various measures need to be implemented in humanitarian areas, in trade, etc. This will strengthen trust and increase hope for the future. It seems to me that you and we have now taken on significant responsibility in resolving the German question, and our presence in West Berlin has led to stability, not the opposite. We don't know who and what could happen there if you and we had not taken responsibility for maintaining peace in this part of the world.

N.S. Khrushchev emphasizes the necessity of signing a peace treaty. This is an inevitable act, natural after the end of the war.

I agree, continues N.S. Khrushchev, with many of your reasonable arguments. However, we disagree that the treaty signing should be postponed. If there is no treaty, friction will remain in our relations. The GDR cannot agree that Americans use communications through its territory without paying for it. Let's say the GDR cuts your telegraph cables. After all, you don't pay for this. And the GDR has every right to do this.

You encouraged West Germany not to pay us reparations, even those that were agreed upon in Potsdam. This particularly concerns the dismantling of certain enterprises. West Germany stopped paying us reparations, and this, of course,

40