Signal Copy

No. 49
Resolution of the Presidium of the CC CPSU "On Instructions to USSR Ambassador
in the Republic of Cuba for Conversation with Fidel Castro"

No. P126/35                                                                                                                 November 29, 1963

Secret

Approve the attached text of instructions to USSR Ambassador in the Republic of Cuba Comrade Alekseev.
[Attachment]

To point 35 of protocol No. 126
Top secret

HAVANA
SOVIET EMBASSY

Visit Comrade F. Castro and, referring to the instruction of the CC CPSU Presidium, communicate the following to him.

As Comrade F. Castro already knows, the Soviet government sent Comrade A.I. Mikoyan to participate in the funeral of the late President Kennedy, who had a meeting in Washington with the new US President L. Johnson.

During this meeting, Johnson told Comrade Mikoyan that he fully shares the policy pursued by his predecessor Kennedy. This policy, Johnson said, will continue to be respected, and we are ready to go more than halfway to meet any government.

Further, Johnson, on his own initiative, raised the question of US attitude toward Cuba. He said: "We have no intentions to invade Cuba. However, the Cuban problem has very serious significance for our people. From the American people's point of view," Johnson continued, "the main problem comes down to subversive activities from Cuba."

To this, Comrade Mikoyan told Johnson that it is difficult for us to understand how small Cuba could conduct subversive activities against any state at all, let alone against such a large state as the USA. On the contrary, the whole world sees, Comrade Mikoyan continued, that subversive actions are being conducted against Cuba, that there exist numerous well-financed organizations carrying out such actions. All subversive activity must cease. Further, Comrade Mikoyan stated that, as he knows well, Cuba wanted most of all for all subversive activity to end. During his stay in Cuba, noted Comrade Mikoyan, Fidel Castro said that he strives to establish good relations with the USA. In connection with the tragedy that befell the USA, F. Castro, as is known, made a dignified statement, in which he spoke as a true

136