Signal Copy

Introduction to Published Documents

The assassination of US President J.F. Kennedy is one of the major sensations of the second half of the 20th century. The continuous flow of journalistic works, investigative journalism, documentary and feature films further confirms that interest in this event persists and will continue to persist for many years. This topic is actively used not only for conspirological purposes to attract audience attention and make money and fame from it, but also for political interests. The recent decree by D. Trump dated January 23, 2025, No. 14176 on the publication of classified materials related to the assassination of the 35th US President is largely connected with internal political struggle in that country, raising questions about the permissiveness and lack of control of its special services.

The topic of Kennedy's assassination has long been firmly established in academic historiography. Not a single serious researcher of Soviet-American relations of recent times has bypassed it. Scientists paid special attention to the causes and consequences of the Caribbean Missile Crisis, as well as the history of preparation and signing of the 1963 Moscow Treaty.¹

It should be noted that the literature predominantly describes the US position, as the main American documents have long been publicly available in the US National Archives² and in the Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum in Boston³. Soviet documents largely remained difficult to access for a long time. To analyze Moscow's position, mainly memoirs of Soviet diplomats and statesmen were used, as well as those of N.S. Khrushchev's son - Sergei⁴, which, like all documents of personal origin, could not replace official documents.

Thanks to recent publications of the three-volume collection of documents of the CPSU Central Committee Presidium⁵, prepared by the Russian State Archive of Contemporary History

[Footnotes:]
¹ This topic has been repeatedly covered in works by domestic and foreign scholars. Among recent studies, particularly noteworthy are publications: Fursenko A.A., Naftali T. Insane Risk: Secret History of the Cuban Missile Crisis 1962. M., 2016; Same authors. "Cold War" Khrushchev: true history of America's adversary. M., 2018.
² See: The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection // https://www.archives.gov/research/jfk
³ See: Archival Collections // https://www.jfklibrary.org/archives/about-archival-collections
⁴ Dobrynin A.F. Strictly confidential. Ambassador to Washington under six US Presidents (1962-1986). M., 1996; Gromykovskiy O.A. Through years and distances. History of one family. M., 1997; Khrushchev S.N. Nikita Khrushchev: Birth of a Superpower. M., 2010.
⁵ Presidium of the CPSU Central Committee. 1954-1964. Black protocol records of meetings. Transcripts. Resolutions. In 3 volumes. 1954-1958. Ed. comp. V.Yu. Afiani. M., 2006.