[Signal copy]

in June 1961, as well as the tape recording of the concluding part of Comrade N.S. Khrushchev's speech on June 15, 1961 in Moscow, which discussed the results of the Vienna meeting.

To instruct TASS and the editorial offices of "Pravda" and "Izvestia" newspapers to select and transfer through the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Kennedy library collection some materials from TASS photo chronicles and Soviet press.

4. Expenses associated with the preparation of materials for transfer to the John F. Kennedy library shall be charged to the Reserve Fund of the USSR Council of Ministers.

[Appendix]

To item 34 prot[ocol] No. 149
Appendix 1

Dear Mr. Kennedy*,

I received your letter259, in which you inform about plans to establish a library in Boston in memory of your brother John F. Kennedy. You express the wish that we also participate in some form in the implementation of these plans. We understand the intention to create the John F. Kennedy Memorial Library and are ready to contribute to this cause. Through the Soviet Embassy in Washington, you will be provided with certain Soviet documents and materials relating to President Kennedy's foreign policy activities, especially in the field of Soviet-American relations.

John F. Kennedy, as I have already said, will undoubtedly go down in history as an outstanding statesman. Being in the high and very responsible position of U.S. President in our time, he proved himself as a person of broad views who sought to realistically assess the world situation and find ways to resolve unsettled international problems through negotiations. I cherish the memory of personal meetings with J.F. Kennedy, during which we openly exchanged opinions on matters of interest to both sides. It is appropriate to note that, although the main problems dividing the world today remain unresolved, nevertheless under President Kennedy we managed through joint efforts to achieve a certain shift for the better in the international situation and in relations between our great powers. Evidence of this is primarily the conclusion of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water. The signing of this treaty was convincing confirmation that, no matter how complex modern international problems may be, solutions can be found. Achieving such solutions in the interests of maintaining and strengthening universal peace was and remains the most important task of all governments, their duty to their peoples.

* On the first page under the main text is printed: "To Mr. Robert F. Kennedy, Attorney General of the United States of America, Washington."

215