Signal copy

of Washington's scandalous chronicle[101]). The same was true with the recent resignation of Naval Minister Kort[102], a direct protégé of Johnson.

Judging by several indicators, there is now an intense discussion behind the scenes of the White House regarding which course the new president should take in US foreign and domestic policy. One of the nearest problems fraught with serious consequences is how to assess the events related to Kennedy's assassination and how we can best use these events in the pre-election context (and there is little doubt that Johnson will seek re-election). The state of our relations with the USA, and indeed the general international situation, may largely depend on what decision Johnson ultimately makes. The proposals expressed in our No. 1973[103] could, in our opinion, play a positive role in this matter.

A. Dobrynin

REFERENCE: No. 1973-1975 (incoming No. 54142) dated 23/XI-63 from comr. Dobrynin, reported about charges brought against Oswald in Kennedy's murder and US reaction to this, made proposals for the embassy to express to US government the USSR government's concern about the tone given to Kennedy's assassination in American press and to draw attention to the consequences for USSR-USA relations that this tendency may have if not stopped in time.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 29 - 32. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 25

Record of conversation between N.S. Khrushchev and US Ambassador to USSR F. Kohler during embassy visit

November 23, 1963[104]

On November 23, during comr. N.S. Khrushchev's visit to the US Embassy in Moscow, a conversation of the following content took place between him and Ambassador Kohler.

Having expressed deep condolences on behalf of the Soviet government and people regarding the assassination of US President Kennedy, N.S. Khrushchev tells Kohler that the Soviet government has decided to send comr. A.I. Mikoyan to Washington to participate in the funeral of the late president.

87