Signal copy

excerpts were prepared on forms distributed to those responsible for execution, as well as sent (in several copies) to Section VI of the General Department of the Central Committee for filing in thematic cases and subsequent dispatch.

Originals of CC CPSU Resolutions (Presidium CC CPSU Resolutions). Draft resolutions were prepared and submitted for consideration by members of the CC CPSU Presidium by relevant CC departments or directly by ministry/agency (typically by force structures or MFA). They were received by Sector I of the CC General Department, after which, as a rule, copies were distributed to CC CPSU Presidium members for voting. After voting concluded (decision made), handwritten corrections were made to the original draft (including editorial changes). After this, the Head of General Department (or Deputy Head of Department) provided written instructions on the draft text regarding formatting, issuance and distribution of the CC CPSU Presidium decision. All subsequent clerical notes regarding printing and distribution, including resolution number and date, were also marked on the original. Upon completion of distribution, original resolutions, protocol excerpts along with notes and other materials that served as basis for their adoption, were transferred to Section VI, where they were filed in cases "Protocols of CC CPSU Presidium meetings (original resolutions and materials)" and in thematic files.

Taking into account that the originals of resolutions reflect all stages of preparation, voting and document issuance in the most concentrated form, the compilers used them as the main source for publication.

2. Official messages of the USSR Council of Ministers Chairman and US President, as well as routine correspondence of the US Embassy.

Messages from N.S. Khrushchev were preserved in two main versions - as a draft prepared in the central apparatus of MFA (in some cases in his secretariat), and in the final version approved by CC Presidium resolution. Two types of messages can be distinguished - open, that is published in press, and closed, confidential. If the message text was officially published, this is indicated in the comments.

Messages from the US President were preserved in two versions - originals in English, directly signed by authors (with autographs or certified facsimile signatures); translations received from the Soviet embassy or MFA central apparatus. All foreign language materials are published in the collection in translation.

3. Records of N.S. Khrushchev's conversations with US political and public figures.

4. Documents of ministries and agencies formed the main part of the collection. They can be conditionally divided into two groups:
notes from the USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chairman of KGB under USSR Council of Ministers and their

19