Signal copy

deterioration, since such a turn of events during the election campaign could cost Kennedy, as it did Nixon in 1960, the presidential post, and he undoubtedly takes this into account. Regarding Kennedy's emerging position on disarmament issues (seeking solutions to specific problems through some actual containment of the arms race in certain areas), it is largely explained by the growing financial difficulties of the USA itself.

Regardless of motives, objectively the above-mentioned Kennedy tendencies align with our foreign policy goals and, as we see it, should be utilized to the maximum extent. Kennedy's confidential statements regarding Soviet-American relations in broad terms were useful in this sense, as well as his repeated assurances regarding Cuba.

Cuba, like West Berlin, remains one of the main, if not the main, issues most significantly affecting our current relations with the USA and fraught with the possibility of unexpected flare-ups. The question of Soviet military personnel in Cuba continues to be one of Kennedy's most vulnerable points domestically. If we add to this the possibility of N.S. Khrushchev's trip to Cuba in the near future, the prospect of which causes obvious concern for Kennedy, then all this serves as a certain tool of influence in our hands on Kennedy, especially during the election campaign, and the president understands this perfectly.

Analyzing all aspects of the USA's foreign and domestic political situation, one cannot finally exclude that Kennedy will be ready to agree to a summit meeting if he considers it useful from the viewpoint of improving his electoral chances. And with the appointment of Home as British Prime Minister, who has established very good personal relations with Kennedy and Rusk, British pressure on the president in favor of such a meeting, even within the Committee of 18, will significantly increase.

Fifth. Taking into account everything stated above, it seems expedient from our side to take the following steps:

a) With the aim of consolidating the positive results of A.A. Gromyko's talks with Kennedy and Rusk and, figuratively speaking, building bridges to the future, send Kennedy a confidential message from N.S. Khrushchev, in which, after briefly analyzing the content of these talks, note the positive aspects, from our point of view, in the Americans' position, criticize positions unacceptable to us, and express our considerations regarding further measures to normalize Soviet-American relations and resolve international problems.

In this message, in particular, it would be appropriate to inform Kennedy that we have taken note of his promise to consult again with US allies on the non-aggression pact and propose to begin developing a concrete form

58