Signal copy

by the majority of the American people; and the peoples of the Soviet Union have always stood and stand* on these positions. We strive to ensure that good relations between countries are implemented in practice, but to achieve this, efforts must not be spared in the struggle with those forces** that stand for waging a "cold war" and resolving disputed issues through starting a war.

Time will show whether these statements will be followed by concrete actions of the American government, its political practice. Words about peace must be supported by practical deeds***. In these concrete actions, the American government will find understanding and support from the Soviet government.

For our part, we will spare no effort to find solutions to unresolved problems, to establish good relations between our great powers.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 294. L. 207. Original. Typewritten text. L. 208 - 217.
Electrographic copy. Typewritten text with corrections in blue ballpoint pen and regular pencil.

№3
Record of conversation between N.S. Khrushchev and US Secretary of State D. Rusk

August 5, 1963****

Reception
by Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. KHRUSHCHEV
of US Secretary of State D. RUSK

The Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. Khrushchev received US Secretary of State D. Rusk at the Kremlin on August 5, who was accompanied by the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee W.J. Fulbright, US Representative to the UN A. Stevenson, Senators J.J. Aiken, L. Saltonstall, J.D. Sparkman, H.H. Humphrey and J.O. Pastore, Director of Arms Control and Disarmament Agency W.C. Foster, Chairman of the US Atomic Energy Commission G.T. Seaborg, Special Assistant to the Secretary of State L. Thompson, US Representative to the Committee

* The words "and stand" inserted in regular pencil.
** Original text "...for the struggle within each state with those forces, ...". Correction by L.F. Ilyichev.
*** Original text "Words about peace must be supported by practical deeds."
**** On the first page at the top, marked in blue ink presumably by G.T. Shuyskiy "Classified", at the bottom - "Record of conversation by comrade N.S. Khrushchev not proofread."

30