Signal Copy

D. Rask expresses his agreement that the systems are indeed different, however, there are also common interests, for example, the aspiration for peace. Perhaps the Treaty will serve as a starting point for solving other tasks. Both the USA and the Soviet Union have many internal tasks. For instance, the United States needs to build schools for 500 thousand students, reconstruct several major cities. The Soviet government also has much to do and we know, says D. Rask, what attention N.S. Khrushchev pays to improving the welfare of the Soviet people.

N.S. Khrushchev says that indeed our systems are incompatible and even if we were lying side by side in graves, we would still take different positions. But we need to build a better life for the living, not graves. We must do everything to end the arms race, not stop at what has been achieved, but move forward and forward. There are several issues that I presented to Harriman, says N.S. Khrushchev, as well as in public speeches. These should be discussed.

For us, the German question is fundamental. Until we resolve it, we will constantly, like hedgehogs, be pricking each other with needles. It's understandable that each side wants to resolve it in their own way. It's clear to us what kind of victory it would be for the US President, Congress, and supporters of capitalism if they managed to liquidate the GDR. Well, what if the opposite happened? If the FRG became a socialist country and joined the socialist camp? However, in current conditions, both scenarios are unrealistic, and this issue cannot be resolved without war. We are experienced people and have fought ourselves. Isn't it time for us to seek acceptable solutions? We need to move the cart of events from military rails to peace rails, i.e., resolve issues in a way that acknowledges the actual situation.

One shouldn't listen too closely to Adenauer and your other allies who are striving for one specific goal. We also have allies, - continues N.S. Khrushchev. Unfortunately, some of them don't understand the real situation in the modern world. Time will pass and they will, of course, realize they were wrong.

D. Rask acknowledges that the German question has fundamental importance for relations between our countries, and he, Rask, would not want to rule out that some mutual understanding could be reached on it. The German question is important for the Soviet Union and USA for historical reasons. The USA has twice participated in wars in Europe and is interested in stability in this region.

D. Rask further says that he is ready to discuss with Soviet representatives the possibilities of finding a mutually acceptable solution during his stay in Moscow.

According to D. Rask, recently there has been some easing of the situation in central Europe. Relations have improved, particularly trade relations, between the FRG and countries lying to the east of it.

32