Signal copy

A third of the entire country's territory, including almost 2/3 of its industrial base, was turned to ruins - losses equivalent to the devastation of the entire country east of Chicago.

If total war begins again today - regardless of how it might start - our two countries would be its first targets. It seems ironic, but this is a real fact: the two strongest world powers face the greatest danger of destruction. Everything we have created, everything we have worked for, would be destroyed. And even in the Cold War, which carries such a heavy burden of danger for many countries, including our closest allies, our two countries bear the heaviest burden. Both countries spend enormous sums on creating weapons of mass destruction, and these funds could have been better used to fight poverty, ignorance, and disease. Both countries are caught in a vicious cycle where suspicions on one side lead to new weapons being created as a countermeasure.

Frankly speaking, both the United States and its allies, and the Soviet Union and its allies, are mutually deeply interested in a just and lasting peace and in halting the arms race. Agreements that contribute to achieving this goal meet USSR's interests as well as ours, and we can expect that even the most hostile states will accept and fulfill those treaty obligations that serve their interests.

So, let us not turn a blind eye to our disagreements, let us also turn our attention to our common interests and to the means by which these disagreements can be resolved. And if we cannot now put an end to our differences, we can at least help create a world in which diversity can exist. After all, what ultimately unites us is the fact that we all live on this planet. We all breathe the same air. We all care about our children's future. And we are all mortal.

Third, let us re-examine our attitude toward the Cold War. We should remember that we are not engaged in debate, trying to pile up one controversial point after another. We are here not to distribute blame or point fingers. We must deal with the world as it is, not as it might have been if history of the last 18 years had been different.

Therefore, we must persistently pursue peace in the hope that constructive changes within the communist bloc may bring within reach solutions which now seem beyond us. We must conduct our affairs in such a way that it would be in the communists' interest to agree to establishing genuine peace. And above all, while defending our vital interests, nuclear powers must avoid such confrontations that force an adversary to choose between humiliating retreat or nuclear war. Adopting such a course in the nuclear age would be evidence only of the bankruptcy of our policy - or of a collective death wish for the world.

To achieve these goals, America maintains weapons that are not used for provocative purposes, are carefully controlled, intended for deterrence and can be used selectively. Our armed forces are disciplined and restrained. Our diplomats are instructed to avoid actions that could cause unnecessary irritation, as well as purely rhetorical hostile declarations.

While we can seek to reduce tensions, we cannot at the same time diminish our vigilance. We do not need to resort to threats to prove our resolve. We have no need to jam foreign radio broadcasts out of fear that our faith will be shaken. We do not want to impose our system on any people who do not wish to accept it, but we want and can peacefully compete with any other system in the world.

Meanwhile, we seek to strengthen the United Nations, help resolve its financial problems, make it a more effective instrument for peace, transform it into a genuine system of international security - a system capable of resolving disputes on the basis of law, ensuring the security of both large and small nations, and creating conditions under which arms can ultimately be abolished.

At the same time, we seek to keep peace within the non-communist world, where many countries - all our friends - have been divided over issues weakening Western unity, provoking communist intervention or threatening to erupt into war.

Our efforts in Western New Guinea, in Congo, in the Middle East, and on the Indian subcontinent have been persistent and patient despite criticism from both sides. We also seek to set an example by trying to resolve smaller but significant disagreements with our closest neighbors in Mexico and Canada.

235