Signal copy

drawing attention to itself, statement also because no matter how tragic this or that loss was, the living are obligated to work in the name of peace, in the name of preventing a global thermonuclear war, which would be an enormous catastrophe for humanity.

Relations between the Soviet Union and the United States of America are an important link in the system of international relations of many countries worldwide. Much depends on our great powers, possessing nuclear weapons of enormous destructive force, in reducing international tensions, establishing such relations between states where existing disputes would be resolved by peaceful means, based on a realistic understanding of existing things.

President J.F. Kennedy departed from life in a situation when his activities in high state office, as I mentioned above, were beginning to be marked by certain agreed constructive decisions related to establishing better mutual understanding between our countries. It is in this sense, in the sense of activities aimed at strengthening peace and reducing international tension, that we understood with appreciation the statements of US President Lyndon Johnson, who proclaimed continuity of the foreign policy of the late President John F. Kennedy.

Respectfully,
N. KHRUSHCHEV
June 29, 1964

Secret
Appendix 2

WASHINGTON
SOVPOSOL

Forward to Robert Kennedy the letter from comrade N.S. Khrushchev (sent by separate telegram)260, which contains the response to R. Kennedy's appeal regarding our participation in creating the John F. Kennedy Memorial Library. By diplomatic mail, we are sending you the following to forward to R. Kennedy: a chronicle-documentary film about the meeting of comrade N.S. Khrushchev with J. Kennedy in Vienna in June 1961, a tape recording of the concluding part of comrade N.S. Khrushchev's speech on June 15, 1961, which discussed the results of the Vienna meeting, and some materials from the Soviet press.

Since R. Kennedy made similar requests to comrades Mikoyan A.I., Gromyko A.A., Adzhubei A.I. and to you, when delivering comrade N.S. Khrushchev's letter, make it clear to Robert Kennedy that the materials being transferred are our common contribution to creating the J.F. Kennedy Memorial Library.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 496. L. 139, 145. Original. Typewritten text. L. 140-144. Copy. Typewritten text.

217