Signal copy

in the White House. Overall, Mikoyan's mission was accomplished. On November 27 at 16:55 Eastern Time, the aircraft with Soviet representatives departed from Andrews Air Force Base to Moscow.

The positive outcome of Mikoyan's trip to Washington became an important signal that on November 29, the Presidium of the Central Committee agreed to hand over to the American side photocopies of correspondence with L.H. Oswald, including the mysterious letter from November 9. The next day, the correspondence was in Rusk's hands. The transfer was timely, as the day before, Johnson's decision established the Presidential Commission to investigate the assassination of U.S. President J.F. Kennedy, better known as the "Warren Commission," named after its head, the authoritative American jurist, Chief Justice of the United States E. Warren.

Information about the transfer of correspondence with L.H. Oswald spread quite quickly through official and unofficial channels. Thus, several hours after meeting with Rusk at a reception hosted by Atomic Energy Commission Chairman G. Seaborg in honor of USSR State Committee Chairman for Atomic Energy Use A.M. Petrosyants, Dobrynin spoke with L. Thompson. The latter not only expressed gratitude for the document transfer but also reported that one of the journalists had "somehow inexplicably" learned about the transfer of photocopies to the State Department. Dobrynin was still returning from the reception when the first Sunday edition of the "Washington Post" (published late Saturday evening) reported about the Soviet ambassador's meeting with Rusk and the transfer of photocopies of correspondence with L.H. Oswald. The next day, this news appeared in all American newspapers. The American press commented on this message positively. Several newspapers indicated that U.S. official authorities had stopped linking Oswald to the Soviet Union.

The transfer of correspondence became an important step by the Soviet side in assisting with the Kennedy assassination investigation. On December 10, 1963, members of the Central Committee Presidium supported Gromyko's proposal to inform Rusk about the reasons for Soviet authorities' refusal to grant Oswald Soviet citizenship. On April 23, 1964, responding to Rusk's and E. Warren's request, Americans were given copies of L.H. Oswald's personal documents from his time in the USSR, including: materials about his residence and employment, departure from

See doc. No. 60.
See doc. No. 52.
See doc. No. 57.
See doc. No. 64.

13