Signal Copy

in spreading such slanderous anti-Soviet and anti-Cuban fabrications, and note them with contempt.

Few believed these fabrications even when there were only initial reports about the circumstances of President J.F. Kennedy's assassination. Now, when a new shot has rung out in the Texas city of Dallas, this time at the person who was charged with the assassination of the US President, such fabrications cannot but cause bitter smiles and understandable indignation not only outside the USA, but also among all honest Americans who have the right to expect that retribution will reach the real killers and organizers of this shameful crime. Who does not understand that the physical elimination of Oswald is an additional link in that chain of crimes that leads to the real organizers of President J.F. Kennedy's assassination, who will stop at nothing to confuse the investigation and direct it down a false path.

The killers of the US President and their inspirers should be sought where they are, where the murder was committed - this is what all reasonable people say who share with the American people feelings of grief and indignation about the tragic death of President J.F. Kennedy.

(TASS)

Top Secret. Copy No. 1
Draft
Appendix 2

WASHINGTON
SOVPOSOL

In case American authorities approach you with a request to provide information available to the embassy about Lee Harvey Oswald, who was in the USSR, you may transmit the following information on this matter.

"According to information available to the embassy, American citizen Lee Harvey Oswald, born 1939, native of New Orleans, Louisiana, arrived in the Soviet Union in October 1959 as a tourist. While in Moscow, he declared to Soviet authorities his desire to remain in the USSR for permanent residence and applied to the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR with a request for Soviet citizenship. This petition by Oswald was rejected by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.

In connection with L.H. Oswald's persistent requests, he was granted temporary residence in the Soviet Union with foreign citizen rights. While in the Soviet Union, Oswald lived in Minsk, where he worked at a local radio factory. In April 1961, Oswald married Soviet citizen Prussakova Marina Nikolaevna, born 1941. In June 1962, Oswald decided to leave the Soviet Union and departed

108