Signal copy

deputies, as well as heads of other state bodies to the Central Committee of the CPSU;
notes from USSR ambassadors to the CPSU Central Committee or USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs, transmitted using encrypted communications. After receipt and decryption, the cipher telegrams were printed in several copies (from 1964, multiplied using electrocopying equipment) and sent to members of the Presidium of the CPSU Central Committee and other addressees. For publication, as a rule, the copy sent to N.S. Khrushchev was used.

5. Documents of personal origin are represented by letters from Jackie and Robert Kennedy, L.H. Oswald. All letters are written in English. The original letters were used by compilers as illustrative material. The documents of personal origin also include a visa application form.

6. Reference and information materials are represented by documents generated as a result of A.I. Mikoyan's trip to the USA, prepared by the USA Department of the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the USSR Embassy in the USA.

Archeographic processing of published documents was conducted in accordance with the Methodological recommendations for the publication of archival documents, developed by VNIIDAD in 2022, taking into account the specifics of document preparation in higher party bodies.

Each document has its own editorial heading, number (if any), indication of the place of document creation (for those prepared outside Moscow) and date. If the document has its own heading, it is included in the editorial heading in quotation marks.

All headings indicate the positions of the author and addressee of the document. The only exception was the positions of N.S. Khrushchev, which are published only in the first document. The compilers proceeded this way, taking into account the current practice of not indicating the positions of top Soviet Union officials (I.V. Stalin, N.S. Khrushchev, L.I. Brezhnev, etc.), which is largely due to both their holding multiple posts and the difficulty of determining in what capacity they are being addressed at a specific moment. Thus, notes addressed to N.S. Khrushchev as Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers were in most cases considered by the Presidium of the Central Committee and were initially formalized as Central Committee resolutions.

The date established by the compilers is indicated in square brackets.

Security classifications, copy numbers, etc. present on the document are reproduced as an integral part of the document after the editorial heading, on the right under the date.

Resolutions, notes, references relating to the document, as well as peculiarities of text reproduction, various corrections in it, etc. are discussed in textual notes, marked with footnote signs in the form of Latin alphabet letters. The compilers considered it possible not to mention in them various clerical notations, registration stamps, and other minor features regarding the formatting and movement of documents that appear in the documents.

20