Signal Copy

No. 9

Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to CC CPSU
regarding the course of US President J.F. Kennedy's administration on relations
with USSR after signing the Moscow Treaty

Spec. No. 1754 - 1765                                                   October 22, 1963 at 50
Washington

                                                                    TOP SECRET
                                                                    Ex. No. 12
                                                                    URGENT

TO CC CPSU

Analysis of the course pursued by the Kennedy administration in matters of relations with the USSR since the signing of the nuclear test ban treaty, the exchange of views with US leadership conducted by A.A. Gromyko in New York and Washington on a wide range of issues51, as well as embassy observations of internal political developments in the USA, allow us, in our view, to express certain considerations regarding the Kennedy administration's position and our further tactical and strategic line in Soviet-American relations.

First. The development of our relations with the USA in the remaining period before the elections and after the elections will largely depend on how the pre-election struggle in the USA unfolds, and who will be the next president in 1964. Kennedy's main opponents are Senator Goldwater and Rockefeller52. In recent days, Nixon's figure has also emerged, who has not abandoned hope of running for president again53. The main rival today is Goldwater, the mouthpiece of the most militant and reactionary circles in the USA who support and finance him. While previously the president's supporters predicted an easy victory over Goldwater should he be nominated by the Republican party, now Kennedy's closest circle in private conversations expresses certain concern about Goldwater's rapidly growing popularity. The latter is an experienced demagogue, playing on a few simple and catchy slogans (for example, reducing Washington's government interference in state affairs), which find response in various parts of the country, especially among politically unsophisticated broad segments of the population. The weak political consciousness of the masses in the USA remains a significant factor that must be

[Footnote at bottom of page:]
* On the first page at top there is a stamp "to N.S. Khrushchev"

52