[Signal copy]

in New Orleans (Louisiana state), since I no longer reside in this state. However, on November 1, the FBI visited us here in Dallas, Texas. Agent James P. Hasty warned me that if I participate in the work of the Committee for Fair Treatment of Cuba, the FBI will again "take interest" in me.

This agent also "suggested" to Marina Nikolaevna that she could stay in the USA under FBI "protection," i.e. that she could defect from the USSR; of course, my wife and I strongly protested against such FBI tactics.

Please inform us about receiving our Soviet entry visas as soon as you receive them. I also inform you about the birth of my wife's daughter Audrey Marina Oswald on October 20, 1963 in Dallas, Texas. Respectfully, Lee H. Oswald.

The Ambassador and I believe that in case American authorities approach us with a request, we should show them the indicated letter.

Resident of the Committee for State
Security under the Council of Ministers
of the USSR

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 33 - 35. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of 8th Department of 8th Main Directorate of KGB under Council of Ministers of USSR. Archive of SVR of Russia. L. 198 - 200. Typescript on cipher telegram form of 8th Department of 8th Main Directorate of KGB under Council of Ministers of USSR. Copy 8

No. 24
Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding mood in White House in connection with J.F. Kennedy assassination

Spec. No. 1983, 1984                                                                   November 23, 1963
Washington                                                                                TOP SECRET
                                                                                                Copy No. 12
                                                                                                URGENT

During continuous radio broadcasts, which are now dedicated only to Kennedy's death, by evening there was a brief statement from a State Department representative that, as far as he knows, there is no evidence that Russia, Cuba or any other country were involved in the president's assassination.

*On the first page at top stamped "To Khrushchev N.S."
85