[Signal copy]

of the mentioned pact (simultaneously it would be expedient to communicate the text of our new parallel statement, which was conveyed to A.A. Gromyko for the president, to the British as well, so that they, particularly Home, would learn about it not only from the Americans).

In the message, it would also be worth noting as a positive point that, according to Kennedy, the US government still attaches great importance to the problem of German peaceful settlement and that he advocates continuing efforts aimed at resolving this issue. In this regard, express the wish that the American side would clarify its position on this matter (the Americans still have not revealed the nature of "temporary measures" regarding West Berlin that they spoke about earlier, and the duration of the proposed arrangement). In this context, as another evidence of the danger associated with the unresolved West Berlin issue, one could mention the recent incidents on the access routes to West Berlin⁶⁸.

Overall, it seems we should continue to put pressure on the USA on these issues to, if possible, clarify their position, their readiness for some kind of arrangement regarding West Berlin and push them toward such an arrangement. However, it is probably not necessary to rush now with discussing the procedure for further exchange of views on these issues with them.

b) Simultaneously, in a separate oral message, inform Kennedy, perhaps in general terms for now, about our principal agreement with his idea that on certain issues (such as freezing or reducing military budgets and reducing troops in Germany), on which the American side cannot yet conclude formal agreements, the governments of the USSR and USA would exchange information about their "intentions" in an unofficial manner.

Orally, it would also be worth letting Kennedy know that we understand his difficulties in connection with the election campaign, but at the same time we do not intend to give him any indulgences during this period in case of hostile actions or statements against the Soviet Union aimed at reducing international tension from his side. This also applies to Cuba.

The message could be delivered either through Thompson or directly to the president (he practices unofficial meetings with ambassadors when it comes to confidential messages from heads of other governments).

c) We also consider it timely to organize now N.S. Khrushchev's appearance on American television to convey our point of view on the most important issues to broad circles of the American population before the election campaign in the USA intensifies.

59