Signal copy

had received "bruises" from Congress at the time for his attempts to liberalize trade relations with socialist countries.

In conclusion, he would like to say that, as A.A. Gromyko already mentioned, the American side would like to continue discussions with Ambassador Dobrynin in Washington on trade issues and try to develop solutions favorable for the development of trade between the USA and USSR.

N.S. Khrushchev says that he mentioned commercial, not government credit, although we would welcome government credit as well, but that's already a matter of politics. In any case, we want to trade on an equal basis. We want to buy what suits us at fair prices corresponding to world market prices.

Rusk jokingly remarks that this is what they call "yankee-style trading," when partners trade fiercely but still find a solution that satisfies both sides and benefits everyone.

N.S. Khrushchev says that he remembers that, in particular, we had good trade relations with the Dupont company. He is well aware that a number of American industrialists would gladly trade with us if the US government didn't prevent them. These industrialists approached the relevant American authorities and were dissatisfied after receiving rejection to their request for permission to trade with us; they are dissatisfied with US government policy on trade issues. They believe, and rightly so, that while we don't have trade with the USA, other countries like FRG, France, Japan will find their way to the vast Soviet Union market.

Rusk says that he would like to say a few words regarding Laos. The American side is concerned about the situation in Laos. America attaches great importance to the Soviet Union and USA working together in support of the Geneva Agreements, which are based on the personal agreement between N.S. Khrushchev and Kennedy reached in Vienna. It is known that the USA reluctantly accepted the terms of the Geneva Agreements and the proposal for a coalition government headed by Souvanna Phouma. Nevertheless, the USA loyally supported the coalition government and Premier Souvanna Phouma, the actions of the International Control Commission and the Geneva Agreements. The United States is very concerned that Souvanna Phouma has encountered major difficulties with Pathet Lao. This may lead to the collapse of the Geneva Agreements. According to the USA, this issue is important not only for maintaining peace in Southeast Asia but also for maintaining trust between the USA and USSR. The Soviet ambassador in Vientiane told the American ambassador that he has no contacts with Pathet Lao, and his influence on these forces is declining. In this regard, it can be recalled that the American side also had difficulties regarding contacts with certain elements in Laos. He, Rusk, hopes that the American and Soviet ambassadors will work in close cooperation with the British

44