[Signal copy]

husband Lee H. Oswald from the USSR dated 18.VII.1961.
3. Marina Oswald's application requesting a visa to leave the USSR dated 21.VIII.1961.
4. Lee H. Oswald's obligation regarding financial support of his wife, written by him in connection with departure to the USA, dated 17.VII.1961.

Medical Materials
1. Medical history of Lee H. Oswald from psychosomatic and surgical departments of Botkin Hospital (Moscow), medical history and outpatient treatment card of Oswald from the Second Clinical Hospital of Minsk.
2. Medical card and outpatient treatment card of Marina Oswald from Minsk.
Execute by telegraph.

RGANI. F. 3. O. 16. D. 448. L. 108-112. Electrographic copy. Typewritten text.

No. 72
From the record of N.S. Khrushchev's conversation with New York Times observer D. Pearson and his wife L. Pearson about the investigation of J.F. Kennedy's assassination

Cairo                                                                                                    May 24, 1964

On May 24, N.S. Khrushchev received American journalist Drew Pearson and his wife Lucy Pearson in Cairo and, at their request, had a conversation with them. Below is the record of this conversation.228

After mutual greetings, N.S. Khrushchev asks D. Pearson about what Mr. Warren, whom he met last year in Yalta229, is doing now.

D. Pearson says that Warren has been assigned a difficult mission. He currently heads the commission investigating President Kennedy's assassination.

N.S. Khrushchev notes that this is indeed a difficult mission. He not only needs to conduct the investigation but also find the killer. And this is not an easy task because there are forces in the USA now, quite influential ones, that are trying to confuse this investigation.

D. Pearson responds that Warren very much wants to identify the true perpetrators of President Kennedy's assassination. He is particularly satisfied with the help and assistance provided by the Soviet government and Soviet Ambassador Dobrynin in this matter,

a On the first page at the top in blue ink: "Record of conversation not to be distributed. Only MFA USSR compiled information about the conversation to be distributed."

187