Special Copy

The Americans complained that Cuba allegedly continues to actively conduct subversive activities against the governments of Latin American countries, stating that the US government supposedly has relevant documents at its disposal confirming this. Such activities by Cubans cause significant concern for the US government. Additionally, suggestions were made that perhaps such activities are encouraged or even directed by China.

These arguments by the Americans were firmly rejected. Comrade Gromyko said, in particular, that if statements by Prime Minister of the Republic of Cuba F. Castro in favor of socialism or against capitalism are interpreted as some kind of subversive activity, then this is nonsense. It was stated that the USA could just as successfully accuse the Soviet Union of conducting subversive activities against the USA on similar grounds. Following this logic, the Soviet side in turn could declare that the USA is carrying out subversive activities against the USSR and other socialist countries.

The Americans showed increased interest in the question of why Cuba had not signed the Moscow Treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons tests and whether it would change its position on this issue.

From our side, it was stated that the Cuban government, as is known, justifies its position regarding the Moscow Treaty by hostile actions from the USA against Cuba. And such actions, unfortunately, do take place. If these actions cease, then, apparently, much will change. However, we cannot, of course, speak for the Cubans.

During the conversations, issues of bilateral Soviet-American relations were also discussed.

Earlier during the exchange of views in Moscow in August of this year, Rusk stated that the American side in principle does not object to signing the agreement on air communication with the USSR, initialed on August 21, 1961 in Washington.

During talks in New York and Washington, the Americans expressed readiness to sign the agreement by the end of this year.

At the meeting with Comrade Gromyko on October 2 of this year, Rusk expressed the American side's readiness to complete negotiations on concluding a consular convention with the USSR. Exchange of views on this issue has been conducted since 1959. Currently, negotiations are being held in Moscow at the expert level between the USSR and USA with the aim of developing the convention text.

Besides the question of possible grain purchases by the Soviet Union in the USA, during talks in New York and Washington, US representatives touched upon the general problem of Soviet-American economic relations.

During the meeting with Comrade Gromyko on October 10, President Kennedy spoke in general terms in favor of expanding trade between the USA and USSR. Rusk and his deputy Ball

70