Signal Copy

Walton expressed doubt about whether Robert Kennedy would be able to put forward his candidacy for vice president or president of the USA in the 1964 presidential election. The point is, Walton continued, that in recent years Robert Kennedy has made many enemies, as he played the role of the president's "lightning rod," dealing with such issues as civil rights for Negroes, the application of anti-trust laws, which caused dissatisfaction among certain groups of the American population. Furthermore, certain damage is done to him by the fact that he has never been elected to any office.

Walton suggested that Robert Kennedy, upon leaving his post as U.S. Attorney General, would dedicate himself entirely to political activity and put forward his candidacy in the Massachusetts gubernatorial election. And only after he earns himself some "political capital" will he be able to attempt to put forward his candidacy for U.S. president.

In Walton's opinion, Robert Kennedy is now the most promising political figure on the American domestic political horizon. He, like no other, can bring John F. Kennedy's ideas to life. Therefore, said Walton, it was strange for me to hear here in Moscow an opinion, although I knew about it in Washington, that Robert Kennedy's views are more reactionary than those of his murdered brother. This is incorrect, Walton asserted, because Robert differs from John only in his firmer character, but not in views, as he fully shared his brother's views and more importantly, actively brought them to life.

I, Walton continued, spoke with Robert Kennedy and Jacqueline Kennedy before departing for the Soviet Union. Robert Kennedy asked to convey his best regards to you. He said - go to Moscow and tell them that we on our part will do everything in our power to ensure that U.S. policy toward the USSR undergoes no changes and that the country's leadership remains in firm hands.

Jacqueline Kennedy asked to convey in Moscow that she is personally very grateful to N.S. Khrushchev for sending A.I. Mikoyan to Washington for her husband's funeral. The condolences expressed by A.I. Mikoyan on behalf of N.S. Khrushchev and personally, said Jackie, were the most sincere and heartfelt, and she most vividly remembers them among all the numerous condolences from foreign statesmen.

Walton suggested that I send small Christmas gifts to Robert Kennedy and his family with him. This, he said, would be very pleasant for Robert Kennedy, who considers you his friend.

Walton asserted that Robert Kennedy and Jacqueline Kennedy, as well as the deceased president's entourage would exert possible influence on Johnson, since Kennedy's people stand at the helm of the Democratic Party machine, although Johnson is nominally its leader.

168