Signal Copy

Lee Harvey OSWALD did not have Soviet citizenship, his temporary residence permit in the USSR had expired, there was no data that would have compromised him, particularly regarding connections with American intelligence, and also, considering that OSWALD and his wife had no access to classified information at their place of work and residence, the KGB under the USSR Council of Ministers did not obstruct their departure.

On March 17, 1963, OSWALD-PRUSAKOVA, who lived with her husband in Dallas (Texas), contacted the consular department of the USSR Embassy in the USA requesting permission to return to the USSR for permanent residence, to settle with relatives in Leningrad. She reaffirmed this petition in a letter dated June 13 of this year, which stated in part: "My husband expresses sincere desire to return with me to the USSR. I strongly request help with this, as there is little comfort for us here and nothing holds us. I cannot work temporarily, even if I found work, and my husband is often unemployed. Living here is very difficult for us. We don't have money for me to travel to the embassy, let alone for hospital payments etc. and for childbirth." (PRUSAKOVA left for the USA with a 3-month-old daughter, and according to information agencies, she recently had a second child).

The letter concludes: "Make us happy again, help us return what we foolishly lost. I want my second child to be born in the USSR."

It is noteworthy that in the first petition from March 17, 1963, PRUSAKOVA wrote that her husband would remain in the USA.

In October 1963, OSWALD contacted the Soviet embassy in Mexico requesting a visa to enter the USSR for permanent residence. Both petitions were reviewed by the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Since OSWALD-PRUSAKOVA's relatives living in Leningrad did not express desire to accept her, she was denied permission to enter the USSR. OSWALD's petition was rejected for the same reasons.

In November 1963, OSWALD sent a letter to the Soviet embassy in Washington, stating that the FBI was interested in his activities because he allegedly served as secretary of the "Committee for Fair Play for Cuba" in New Orleans. Characteristically, immediately after OSWALD's arrest, American telegraph agencies made hints about his past speeches supporting the Cuban revolution and participation in distributing leaflets in defense of Cuba.

Both during OSWALD and his wife's stay in the USSR and after they left our country, the Committee for State Security showed no operational interest in them.

A. SAKHAROVSKY                    O. GRIBANOV

CSA FSB RF. F. 5-os. Op. 10. D. 73. L. 361 - 368. Copy. Typewritten text.

165