Signal Copy

This statement by Khrushchev showed that Kennedy's death caused serious concern in the Kremlin, as it could potentially turn into a major problem. Therefore, it became important to understand who L.H. Oswald was and what he did in the Soviet Union.

O.A. Troyanovsky recalled that on the morning of November 23, he called the KGB Chairman under the USSR Council of Ministers V.E. Semichastniy and inquired about what information the special services had about the assassin. "It seemed that Semichastniy was expecting this question. He immediately replied that he had read reports about Oswald's arrest and had already given orders to gather information about him. Soon he called me back and stated that, according to his information, the KGB never had any contacts with Oswald," - wrote Khrushchev's aide21.

Probably then Troyanovsky, referring to Khrushchev's verbal order, requested to prepare a briefing note about Oswald, which was sent that same day to Gromyko, the Central Committee of the CPSU and Mikoyan's secretariat in Sovmin22.

Semichastniy, in his interviews with Swedish researcher T. Sniegon, later published as memoirs, stated there was no "Moscow trail" in Kennedy's assassination. There were simply no motives - he said: "I cannot imagine that any Soviet leader could take responsibility for the death of a top American statesman and for the catastrophic consequences that revealing such a connection would mean for us and for the whole world. And what would we achieve by that? Nothing, except the very fact of the dirty elimination of a politician who, unlike others, could be negotiated with, a person whom we, although fought against through propaganda means, simultaneously valued and respected more than his competitors. By such an attempt on the country's highest representative, we would demonstrate to the American public not strength, but only our own stupidity, as well as the ruthlessness of a system that after 1956 had set itself on the path to humanizing life and defined it as its main goal. In any case, events would have turned against us"23.

While in Moscow they were gathering materials about L.H. Oswald and preparing Mikoyan's trip, in the USA a real campaign unfolded to identify and expose an international communist conspiracy. Various pro-Soviet labels were hung on Oswald. At one point, Dobrynin even advised Moscow "to express to the US government our

21 Troyanovsky. Through years and distances... P. 259.
22 See doc. No. 26.
23 Semichastniy V.E. Restless heart. M., 2002. P. 332.

8