Signal copy

2. Photocopies of correspondence materials on 40 pages (for addressee only).

CHAIRMAN OF THE STATE SECURITY COMMITTEE
V. Semichastny

[Attachment]
Top Secret
Copy No. 2

MEMORANDUM

Lee Harvey OSWALD, born 1939, was in the USSR from October 16, 1959 to June 1962. OSWALD entered the Soviet Union on a tourist visa issued to him in Helsinki for a five-day period.

Immediately after arriving in Moscow, he showed no interest in getting acquainted with Soviet life, but began negotiations with Intourist employees about his intention to remain permanently in the USSR. OSWALD justified this desire by stating that, although he does not belong to the Communist Party or any other progressive American organization, he is familiar with Marxist literature and is a convinced opponent of the capitalist system. Since he sees no prospects for his continued residence in his homeland, he intends to settle in the Soviet Union.

On October 17, 1959, that is, on the second day after OSWALD's appearance in Moscow, the Office of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR forwarded to the KGB under the Council of Ministers of the USSR OSWALD's application requesting his admission to Soviet citizenship. Given the complete uncertainty about the applicant's identity, on October 20, 1959, the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR (comrade GEORGADZE) was notified in writing that the KGB of the USSR considers OSWALD's admission to Soviet citizenship inappropriate.

On October 22, 1959, the chairman of the "Intourist" board comrade ANKUDINOV sent a memo to the KGB stating that on October 20, during a conversation at OVIR, OSWALD was assured that he would receive an answer the next day regarding his request for Soviet citizenship.

On October 21, the staff of the "Berlin" hotel, where the American was staying, informed him that he needed to appear at OVIR, but warned that tickets had been ordered for him and he should prepare to leave the country. OSWALD did not go to OVIR, and was later found in the bathroom of his locked hotel room at the "Berlin" hotel with his wrists cut. A note was found on the writing desk in the room: "I have come such a long way not to find death. I love life."

First aid was provided to the victim on site, and then he was taken to the Botkin Hospital. According to the testimony of the doctors who treated him, OSWALD has

162