Signal Copy

Jackie Kennedy expressed her heartfelt gratitude to N.S. Khrushchev and us for the warm support and for specially coming to the USA to attend her husband's funeral.

She spoke of all this with inspiration and emotion, and throughout the entire conversation held my hand with both of her hands, trying as convincingly as possible to convey her feelings and thoughts regarding the cause of peace, to which her husband dedicated his efforts, and her desire for our countries to complete the work that was started.

She makes a strong impression with her composure.

A. MIKOYAN

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 44-45. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 36
Cipher telegram from First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers 
A.I. Mikoyan to CC CPSU regarding conversations during reception with US President L. Johnson
with official American representatives

Spec. No. 2002-2004                                                   November 25, 1963
Washington                                                             TOP SECRET
                                                                      Copy No. 12
                                                                      URGENT

TO CC CPSU

Today during the reception with the President, I had several brief conversations with US officials.

Two points from these officials' statements deserve attention:

1. All of them (Rusk, Thompson, Director of Arms Control Agency Foster, responsible State Department staff), besides expressing great appreciation for the Soviet government's decision to send its special representative to Kennedy's funeral, from their very first words emphasized their confidence that President Kennedy's line in Soviet-American relations, as well as US foreign policy as a whole, will be maintained under the new president - L. Johnson.

2. Thompson specifically raised in conversation with me the question he discussed yesterday with Comrade Dobrynin - about Soviet press commentary regarding President Kennedy's assassination and especially regarding circumstances related to the investigation of this entire matter.

The essence of Thompson's statements came down to the point that the Soviet press's emphasis on the involvement of far-right circles in the attempt on Kennedy (and subsequently in the murder

[Note at bottom of page: *Stamp "to Khrushchev N.S." at top of first page]
110