[Signal Copy]

No. 44
Cipher telegram from First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers 
A.I. Mikoyan to the CPSU Central Committee regarding conversation with US Secretary of State D. Rusk

Spec. No. 2021 - 2033                                                                                   November 27, 1963
Washington                                                                                                                      TOP SECRET
                                                                                                                                     Copy No. 12
                                                                                                                                     URGENT

TO CPSU CC

On November 26, we visited Rusk and had a conversation in his office at the State Department.

Beginning the conversation, Rusk said that, as President Johnson had already informed us, the US government welcomes our arrival in Washington, although it certainly regrets the reason that prompted this visit. The American people, he added, highly value your arrival.

I replied that I indeed came to the USA with a sad mission. However, we considered it our duty to express our attitude toward the late president and to the American people in connection with their loss.

Rusk further said that he would like to comment on Johnson's statements regarding the continuity between Kennedy's policy and the policy of the new president. President Johnson, Rusk continued, instructed me to inform all other governments that, as Vice President, Johnson fully supported Kennedy, not formally, but from principled positions. This is evidenced by the fact that, as Johnson has already stated, all former cabinet members remain in their posts now. Johnson always worked closely with Kennedy, frequently participating in meetings held at the White House, and was always aware of all international political events. Thus, a State Department representative was constantly present in his office, keeping him informed of all current affairs. Therefore, when we speak of policy continuity, this is not a formal statement, but a reflection of the actual state of affairs. Therefore, we hope to continue seeking solutions to international problems, both large and small, in order to find ways to strengthen peace and thereby achieve the goal shared by the president and Chairman Khrushchev.

I replied to Rusk that I was pleased to hear these statements of his, which sound very convincing. These words are important not because much good has already been done, but because, apparently, a method has been found to solve the problems before us on such a basis that

[*On the first page at the top, stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."]

127