Special copy

Dobrynin immediately sent two coded messages to Moscow, which contained the following proposals. First, to hand over to the American authorities, if they inquire, all correspondence with Oswald. Second, for Soviet leadership to send official condolences to Washington and visit the American ambassador's residence in Moscow. These steps, in Dobrynin's opinion, were meant to help counter the hysteria growing in American mass media regarding Oswald's possible connections with "extreme left-wing elements"¹⁸.

The coded messages reached the Soviet leadership's desk at 7:30 AM and 8:30 AM on November 23. By this time, the MID central apparatus had already prepared draft texts with condolences and the Central Committee resolution regarding Mikoyan's trip to the USA. The Central Committee Presidium members promptly approved the documents by poll¹⁹. Regarding the trip, it's worth noting an interesting detail - it wasn't a Soviet delegation traveling to the funeral, but Mikoyan alone, though accompanied. To America with him were to fly the head of the USA department of the USSR MID M.N. Smirnovsky, Mikoyan's assistant V.V. Smolyachenko, interpreter V.M. Sukhodrev, and security officers.

After the Central Committee resolutions were adopted, between 11 and 12 noon, Khrushchev, accompanied by Gromyko and Sukhodrev, went to the American embassy to pay respects to the late US president. During a brief conversation with Ambassador F. Kohler, the Soviet leader not only informed that Mikoyan would travel to Washington for the funeral but also inquired about the detention of the assassin. Kohler limited himself to abstract information - he didn't name his surname, only mentioned that it was a former deranged marine, adding that his exact guilt hadn't been established yet. Khrushchev, probably expecting the ambassador to mention L.H. Oswald's leftist views, came prepared with a "pre-emptive statement," declaring that the Communist party had always been against methods of terror and even cited an alleged Lenin quote from 1887 after the execution of Alexander's elder brother: "We shall take a different path"²⁰. The reference to Lenin served as proof that communists advocated for methods of political struggle and were against physical elimination of competitors.

_______________
¹⁸See doc. No. 12 and 13.
¹⁹See doc. No. 17 and 19.
²⁰According to Lenin's sister Maria Ulyanova, Vladimir Ilyich said the following: "No, we shall take a different path. Not this path should be taken." The phrase "We shall take a different path" gained circulation after the 1924 publication of V.V. Mayakovsky's poem "Vladimir Ilyich Lenin."

7