Signal copy

the representative was advised to decline interviews with the press and television appearances, and was also advised not to stay in America for long after the funeral29.

Mikoyan arrived in Washington on November 24 and settled in the embassy building. Dobrynin familiarized him with materials sent from the State Department, particularly with the list of representatives from foreign states participating in the funeral, and with the farewell ceremony for the deceased president30. Interpreter V.M. Sukhodrev wrote in his memoirs that there were instructions about the dress code. The matter was that since the second third of the XIX century in England and the USA, men wore a cutaway - a black morning coat with rounded, diverging front tails - for mourning events. "In all my previous experience, I knew that our leaders had neither smoking jackets nor tailcoats. How surprised I was when Mikoyan suddenly announced that he brought with him 'some kind of jacket with long tails'," - wrote the interpreter31. It turned out that Mikoyan had worn this suit when he was at the inauguration of Pakistan's president. Mikoyan's entourage was gathering in Washington hurriedly, without sufficient time. The same Sukhodrev recalled that he arrived in the USA wearing a light coat which "was not quite suitable in color for such an occasion"32. He was helped out by one of the embassy staff who lent him a dark blue coat.

Monday, November 25, was declared a day of mourning throughout the USA. On this day at 11 AM, the solemn farewell ceremony for Kennedy began. The tightly closed coffin made of polished wood containing the president's body was moved from the Capitol Rotunda, where ordinary Americans bid farewell to their leader, to the White House grounds. From there, the procession, led by the commander of the military district in Washington, Major General F. Willa, consisting of a company of drummers and marines and a gun carriage with the coffin drawn by two light-colored horses in apples, moved toward St. Mark's Cathedral. A mourning procession followed the cortege: the widow, close relatives, President L. Johnson, high-ranking foreign and American state and public figures. A funeral service for Kennedy was held in the cathedral, after which the deceased's body was taken to Arlington Cemetery where the burial took place, and Robert and Jacqueline lit an eternal flame on the grave.

After the cemetery, all guests gathered in the White House banquet hall. This was the Kennedy widow's last official reception. Jacqueline appeared only at the end; everyone

29 See doc. No. 32.
30 See doc. No. 33.
31 Sukhodrev V.M. My Language is My Friend. M., 2008. P. 172.
32 Ibid.

10