Signal Copy
No. 40

Coded telegram from First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers 
A.I. Mikoyan to the CC CPSU about conversations with leaders of foreign states 
at receptions after J.F. Kennedy's funeral

Spec. No. 2013-2017                                                   November 26, 1963
Washington
                                                                    TOP SECRET
                                                                    Copy No. 12
                                                                    URGENT

CC CPSU

From brief conversations which I had during yesterday's two receptions with leaders of many foreign states, the following deserves to be reported to you:

1. British Prime Minister Home, upon seeing me, approached on his own and greeted me cordially, then began saying how difficult it is to be Prime Minister, with many worries. To my question whether Macmillan had completely left the political arena or not, he replied that doctors recommended him to step away from affairs for 6 months, after which he intends to participate in the work of the House of Commons. I reminded him of words Macmillan told me in Leningrad about having 10 years of active political life left, which he wants to dedicate to the struggle for peace, for truth, though one usually gets beaten from all sides for this. I told this to Home to prompt him to speak about what he himself plans to do. Home shared that he was planning to write a message to N.S. Khrushchev soon. One could understand Home that he also intends to continue in the spirit of the desire expressed by Macmillan.

I told Home that England could play a serious independent role in resolving current international problems, particularly regarding relations with the Soviet Union. He gladly agreed with this thesis, then asked if I knew Butler. I said that I was not acquainted with him, but had just familiarized myself with his interesting message to our minister A.A. Gromyko.

Home asked how we like their ambassador in Moscow Trevelyan. I replied that he makes a good impression. Home spoke of him as a very good and interesting person.

After the reception they called from Home and informed that he invites me to meet with him, to which I gave my consent.

*At the top of the first page is a stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."
118