[Control copy]

and thus against the Soviet Union (Norman Kazins from New York also called me today about this, asking to convey his "friendly advice to Moscow").

To my question whether he really thinks that Oswald is virtually a "tool of international communism," Thompson firmly replied that, of course, he does not think so. However, Thompson said nothing to my comment that isn't it not in the interests of relations between our countries to expose any insinuations and hints directed at the Soviet Union and progressive forces in connection with recent events. And these events, apparently, certain circles in the USA are not averse to using for their own selfish interests, especially when no official statements are made here that would help stop the intrigues and reduce tensions within the country in connection with everything happening here after Kennedy's death.

Secondly, welcoming A.I. Mikoyan's upcoming arrival to Washington, Thompson, again as his personal opinion, advised him:

To avoid any interviews with press and television if possible. "Whatever A.I. Mikoyan might say publicly now," Thompson noted, "almost certainly everything under current conditions will be transmitted in a distorted light and used to incite anti-Soviet sentiments." Our very participation in the president's funeral "speaks for itself quite eloquently and creates a good impression among the majority of the American people." American authorities will, of course, take all precautionary measures to ensure A.I. Mikoyan's personal safety. Nevertheless, in Thompson's opinion, after the funeral A.I. Mikoyan should probably not stay too long in Washington.

Regarding my comment about the usefulness for Soviet-American relations of organizing a personal meeting between A.I. Mikoyan and the new president, Thompson replied that he fully agrees with me, but the question of individual meetings between Johnson and arriving high officials has not yet been decided, as there are too many of them. They wanted to organize such meetings only for heads of state at first, but then prime ministers of many important countries would be left out. So far there is an intention to arrange a general reception for heads of delegations, where it will be possible to talk with Johnson for 5-10 minutes.

I told Thompson that such matters, of course, depend on the president's decision and what he considers most necessary. Thompson immediately said that he understands that meeting with "some duchess," who formally holds a high protocol position, cannot be compared to meeting with a member of the Soviet government, and that he has been thinking about this himself since learning about A.I. Mikoyan's upcoming arrival here (late in the evening Thompson called me and said that he would go meet A.I. Mikoyan and that "the meeting we discussed will almost certainly be arranged").

Thompson also strongly recommended that A.I. Mikoyan visit Rusk, regardless

97