Signal copy

predecessor, it is still unclear how successful he will be at this. It can be predicted that the pressure from reactionary right-wing forces on the new president will be significantly stronger than under Kennedy, including on the issue of relations with revolutionary Cuba. In this situation, there is a risk that certain forces in the USA will seek a pretext to push President Johnson toward hostile actions against Cuba.

Taking all this into account, we have concluded that, apparently, under current conditions, implementing the agreement about N.S. Khrushchev's visit to Cuba would not be beneficial and would not be in Cuba's interests. Such a trip would evidently contribute to inflaming passions in the USA, could be viewed as a challenge and used by the "rabid ones" to activate hostile actions against Cuba. This may take even sharper forms, as the pre-election campaign is already unfolding in the USA, which itself causes instability in American politics. Even among Americans who are favorably disposed toward Cuba, such a trip in the current situation could cause bewilderment. Based on this situation, we have concluded that under present conditions it would be more expedient to postpone Comrade N.S. Khrushchev's trip to Cuba.

You know that the matter of Comrade N.S. Khrushchev's trip to Cuba was decided in Moscow during your stay in the Soviet Union¹⁷⁴. N.S. Khrushchev was preparing for this trip, and he very much wanted to visit Cuba. Of course, if not for recent events in the USA, we would not have even raised the question of postponing this trip. Preparations for this trip were already in full swing and the departure date was even set for December 27.

Tell Comrade F. Castro that in Moscow they would be very happy to see him again in the Soviet Union¹⁷⁵. This could be done in winter, to go hunting together, as was discussed during his stay in the USSR. The established regular air transportation means could allow such a trip to be made incognito, if that would be desirable for Comrade F. Castro. In our opinion, such an incognito trip would be the better form under current conditions. However, of course, we leave the decision of this matter entirely to your discretion.

The Presidium of the CC CPSU and personally Comrade N.S. Khrushchev express hope that Comrade F. Castro and his associates will correctly understand the motives that guided the Presidium in expressing these considerations, which I have been instructed to convey to you.

Execute telegraph.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 377. L.87-91. Original. Typewritten text.

138