Signal copy

Oswald lived in Minsk, where he worked at a local radio factory. In April 1961, Oswald married Soviet citizen Prussakova Marina Nikolaevna, born in 1941. In June 1962, Oswald decided to leave the Soviet Union and traveled to the USA with his family, having received permission from the US Embassy in Moscow, with which he maintained contact. In early 1963, the Oswald family appealed to the USSR Embassy in Washington requesting permission to enter the Soviet Union for permanent residence. This request was denied.

Regarding reports about Oswald's alleged membership in the US Communist Party, in this connection we can only note that in the statement of the US Communist Party Central Committee, published on November 23, allegations that Oswald "has any connection to the Communist Party" were categorically denied.

Public statements from our side with generalizing political conclusions regarding Oswald himself and his intentions may give grounds for new insinuations against the USSR and Cuba, which will only draw attention again to an issue that is currently becoming secondary, as the events themselves, and especially Oswald's murder, expose the provocative nature of all actions by Texas authorities.

We have the impression that US federal authorities themselves are seeking to hush up this case, understanding the absurdity of directing it against the USSR and Cuba and realizing that it can only harm US policy and further undermine their international prestige.

Explain this to Cuban friends.

Regarding the fact of Oswald's appeal to the Cuban embassy in Mexico, Cuban friends will, of course, decide for themselves how to proceed.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 377. L. 97-99. Original. Typewritten text.

No. 51
Note from US Ambassador to the USSR F. Kohler to USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko with enclosed message from US Secretary of State D. Rusk

November 29, 1963

FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Moscow, November 29, 1963

Dear Mr. Minister,

I enclose the text of a message received today from Secretary of State Dean Rusk.
Sincerely,

Foy D. Kohler

140