Signal Copy

in the occupation forces in Japan265, saw American military imperialism in all its forms.

I do not want to return to any country outside the Soviet Union. I am ready to renounce my American citizenship and take on the obligations of a Soviet citizen.

I saved money that I received as a private in the American army for two years, in order to come to Russia and explain my desire to obtain Soviet citizenship. I no longer have enough money to live here for an extended period, or to travel to any other country. I have no desire to go to any other country. I request that my application be urgently considered.

Sincerely yours,
Lee Harvey Oswald.

Address:
Moscow, Hotel "Berlin"
Room
320 Lee Harvey Oswald.
Translated by L. Postnikova

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 63. D. 65. L. 101. Original. Translated from English.
Typewritten text. Ibid. L. 102. Original. Handwritten text in English.
Blue ballpoint pen.

No. 88
Note from Deputy Chairman of KGB under the Council of Ministers of USSR
A.I. Perepelitsyn to Secretary of Presidium of Supreme Soviet of USSR M.P. Georgadze
regarding the inadvisability of accepting L.H. Oswald into Soviet citizenship

No. 4870/P                                                                                                     October 20, 1959a

to No. 435 from October 17, 1959
                                                                                                                    Secret
                                                                                                                    Copy No. 1
                                                                                                    To Secretary of Presidium of
                                                                                                    Supreme Soviet of USSR
                                                                                                    Comrade Georgadze M.P

The Committee for State Security under the Council of Ministers of USSR considers the acceptance of Lee Harvey Oswalda into Soviet citizenship inadvisable.

a On KGB letterhead under the Council of Ministers of USSR.

226