Signal Copy

No. 50
Resolution of the Presidium of the CPSU Central Committee "On Instructions to Sovposol in Cuba
Regarding the Transfer of Information about Oswald"

No. П126/36                                                                                                                 November 29, 1963

Approve the draft instructions to Sovposol in Havana (attached).

[Attachment]
To item 36 of prot[ocol] 126
Top Secret

HAVANA
SOVPOSOL

1498. Inform Cuban friends that we have so far avoided making any official or officious statements regarding Oswald's personality and qualifying his actions in any way, since the Dallas police authorities, through their crude provocative actions reported by the American press, have exposed themselves and clearly demonstrated the biased and false nature of their reports about Oswald's alleged connections with the Soviet Union and Cuba. The clearly premeditated murder of Oswald, organized by the same Dallas police authorities and the forces behind them, has even more clearly shown that the whole Oswald story is a dark affair initiated by reactionary circles in the USA and Texas police. Therefore, we have mainly limited ourselves to publishing American reports and press commentary from other countries, which by themselves exposed the provocative nature of American statements about some involvement of the USSR and Cuba in this adventure. This is the most convincing form of coverage for this case. We believe it is hardly expedient for now to change this position and make any generalizing officious statements about which specific US circles are behind this whole affair.

Regarding Oswald himself, we can provide the following information.
American citizen Lee Harvey Oswald, born in 1939, native of New Orleans, Louisiana, arrived in the Soviet Union in October 1959 as a tourist. While in Moscow, he informed Soviet authorities of his desire to remain in the USSR permanently and applied to the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR with a request for Soviet citizenship. This petition by Oswald was rejected by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.

In connection with L.H. Oswald's persistent requests, he was granted temporary residence in the Soviet Union as a foreign citizen. While in the Soviet

139