Signal exemplar

of three governments, which not only cleans the atmosphere of the Earth from harmful precipitation, but in a certain sense also makes the international political atmosphere cleaner. All this strengthens the hopes of peoples for further détente, creates prospects for resolving other unresolved issues.

As far as I can judge from your statements, Mr. President, as well as from the statements made here by your Secretary of State Mr. Rusk, you share our conviction that now it is important not to stop at what has been achieved, but to take further steps from the good start we have made. Of course, the path ahead will not be easy. However, we must follow it persistently and steadfastly, moving neither hastily nor slowly, consistently working towards solutions to pressing international problems, which would again serve the interests not only of our two countries but of the whole world.

There is hardly any need to list all these problems again here. They have been mentioned by us repeatedly. I mentioned them in my last conversation with Mr. Rusk. I would only like to emphasize that these problems await their solution.

And it is better to solve them without delay, as they say, without putting them on the back burner, to solve them right now, in the calmer and therefore more favorable environment that has developed, rather than under other circumstances that may always arise, since serious unresolved problems remain.

Mr. Rusk has already, of course, informed you about his stay in the Soviet Union and our conversations with him. We believe that the Secretary of State's visit to us was useful. In a short period, Mr. Rusk managed, besides Moscow, to visit Leningrad - a city of great historical traditions, as well as the Black Sea coast. As I understood, he was satisfied with his trip. I was told that the senators who were present at the signing of the Treaty were also satisfied with the trip. I don't know to what extent this may facilitate the Treaty's ratification by the U.S. Senate, but the fact that they visited us and met, among others, with our deputies of the USSR Supreme Soviet is, in our opinion, a positive factor. We have always believed that such contacts contribute to better mutual understanding.

During conversations with the Secretary of State, we had the opportunity to exchange views on a known range of issues, including matters directly related to Soviet-American relations. Naturally, improved relations between our countries would have a beneficial effect and would facilitate the search for solutions to fundamental international problems that currently divide us.

Mr. Rusk expressed his wish after his report to you, Mr. President, to continue the exchange of views on all such matters. We agree with this, and moreover, consider the continuation of exchange of views necessary.

48