Signal Copy

To His Excellency
N.S. KHRUSHCHEV,
Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the USSR
Moscow USSR

[Attachment]

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
19/21 Tchaikovsky Street                                                                                Moscow
                                                                                                    September 28, 1964

WARREN COMMISSION FINDS
THAT OSWALD ALONE COMMITTED KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

Washington, September 27, 1964.

The special commission of prominent American citizens concluded that Lee Harvey Oswald, acting alone and not as "part of any domestic or foreign conspiracy," committed the assassination of President Kennedy on November 22 of last year.

Examining Oswald's motives, the commission could not reach a definitive conclusion, however, noted such various factors as his bitterness toward any authority, his persistent desire to secure a place in history, his inclination toward violence, and his clearly expressed antagonism toward the United States.

The Commission, headed by Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States, also found that Oswald killed Dallas police officer J.D. Tippit when the latter approached him forty-five minutes after President Kennedy's assassination.

Furthermore, the commission tentatively established that Jack Ruby "acted independently" when he shot Oswald, whom he did not know, and killed him at the Dallas city police station, two days after the President's death.

The Commission forwarded its report to President Johnson last Thursday and the White House published this extensive document on Sunday evening.

The report sharply criticized the negligence of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Secret Service, and Dallas city police, and recognized the need to improve measures for protecting American presidents.

The Commission's investigation was the most thorough, complete, and objective in history. More than twenty-five thousand individuals were interviewed and about four thousand special reports were studied, comprising tens of thousands of pages.

In conclusion, the commission found that Oswald knew neither Ruby nor Tippit, and the latter two did not know each other.

The voluminous report, consisting of eight hundred and eighty-eight pages, was the result of a ten-month investigation by a seven-member commission headed by Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the USA. The commission's work was the only

196