[Signal copy]

conclusion of the German peace treaty, however, it is convinced that the Western powers would make a mistake if they continued to indefinitely delay, together with the Soviet Union and other interested countries, the resolution of the German peace settlement.

Representatives of the USA and England stated that they recognize the paramount importance of resolving "the German problem and the Berlin question" for improving relations between NATO countries and member states of the Warsaw Treaty.

To the direct question posed by Comrade Gromyko - whether it is correct to consider that the US government still attaches great importance to the problem of German peace settlement and that it advocates continuing efforts aimed at resolving this problem - Kennedy responded affirmatively. However, the Americans believe that currently there is no real possibility for solving the German problem, although "time is working in favor of such a solution." Rusk referred, in particular, to certain changes that occurred over the past two years which have deprived the German problem of its former acuteness and tension.

From the discussions it became clear that the US government, while stating the impossibility of achieving a solution to the German problem now, does not reject recognizing the degree of agreement that was reached on a number of issues relating to the German peace settlement, and shows readiness to work on creating a more favorable general international environment, including further improvement of relations between the two German states and between East and West as a whole. Meanwhile, Rusk claimed that the new FRG government would supposedly gradually implement a more conciliatory policy towards socialist countries and would eventually move towards creating joint technical commissions of FRG and GDR representatives, and that all this would smooth out disagreements. Now the main question is how to prevent the aggravation of the German problem while finding ways to resolve other unresolved issues.

Hume repeated the previous proposal of Western powers to assign the preparation of issues relating to the German problem, including those concerning German unification, to deputy ministers, who would be given several months for this purpose. Representatives of both German states could participate in discussing such issues.

When discussing matters regarding West Berlin, Kennedy and Rusk continued to declare the unacceptability for the USA of Soviet proposals regarding the composition and duration of foreign troops' presence in West Berlin, and in their statements proceeded from the position that Western powers' troops must remain in West Berlin until the final settlement of the German problem. Kennedy stated that one of the obstacles preventing agreement on the German question is the issue of changing

63