Signal copy

and activities of secret forces. Such views, added the interlocutor, are characteristic of Western European countries as well, where there is an almost unanimous opinion that Kennedy was killed by his opponents. However, such views, emphasized McCloy, "are not supported by any evidence or facts."

Academician Millionshchikov participated in the conversation.

From the conversation with McCloy, one gets the impression that the firmness and categorical nature of his statements are dictated by the desire to show the validity of the Warren Commission's conclusions about Oswald being the sole perpetrator in Kennedy's assassination and the non-involvement of any internal or external forces.

There is also no doubt that the Warren Commission and President Johnson are taking measures to dampen the reaction to Kennedy's assassination and prevent the use of this case during the election campaign.

N. Fedorenko

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 169-174. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 74
Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to Great Britain V.M. Vasev to USSR MFA regarding B. Russell's letter to N.S. Khrushchev requesting L.H. Oswald's dossier

Spec. No. 1217                                                                                      July 24, 1964
London
                                                                                                              TOP SECRET
                                                                                                              Copy No. 11

On July 22 of this year, Bertrand Russell sent a confidential letter to Comrade N.S. Khrushchev, containing a request to provide Oswald's dossier at his, Russell's, disposal.

Russell also approached the embassy with a request to duplicate through our channels the text of his letter (without attachments) to Comrade N.S. Khrushchev's secretariat.

The text of Russell's letter follows.

"To Premier N.S. Khrushchev,
Moscow, USSR
July 22, 1964

* On the first page at the top stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."

192