[Signal copy]

Oswald Lee complicates the position of those in the USA who stand for improvement of Soviet-American relations, since such statements are immediately countered in the American press by claims about "communist and Cuban connections" of Oswald Lee.

I told Thompson that we do not want to create any complications, but we cannot ignore such a situation when the US government has not yet investigated all circumstances of the assassination, while meaningless accusations regarding Kennedy's murder are already being made in the press against us and Cuba.

Thompson replied that he understands this but asks to understand what he said. The government is now investigating all circumstances of the case, Thompson said, and it is in our common interests to take measures so that until the investigation is completed, the Soviet press would limit itself to presenting facts and refrain from "premature conclusions," as this only plays into the hands of the right-wing who use this to inflame anti-Soviet and anti-Cuban hysteria.

It appears that the US government does not want to involve us in this matter, but also does not want to get into a fight with the far right; it clearly prefers to consign this whole matter to oblivion as quickly as possible. Our reaction to these murders has already played its role. The President stated publicly today that a thorough investigation will be conducted.

I believe that in further statements of our press, this moment should be taken into account. This will help weaken attempts to inflame an anti-Soviet and anti-Cuban campaign.
A.MIKOYAN

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 46 - 48. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 37
Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR MFA
regarding the provocative nature of Lee H. Oswald's letter of November 9, 1963
and the advisability of transferring consular correspondence with him to American authorities

Spec. No. 2005                                                November 26, 1963 No.1122
Washington

TOP SECRET
Copy No. 12
URGENT

Please pay attention to Oswald's letter of November 9, the text of which was transmitted to Moscow through close neighbors' line.

*On the first page of the cipher telegram at the top is a stamp "To Khrushchev N.S." To the left before the main text is a note by V.N.Malin in black ink "see. No. 36057/2620 from 24.XI.63." This concerns the registration number of the cipher telegram in Section IV of the General Department of CC CPSU (see document No. 23).
111