Control copy

[Appendix]
To item 37 of protocol 126
Top secret

WASHINGTON
SOVPOSOL

2005180. We agree with you. You may give Rask the photocopies of correspondence with Oswald, including his letter of November 9; however, do not wait for a request from American authorities. When transferring the photocopies, state that the letter of November 9 was received by the embassy only on November 18, having apparently been delayed somewhere. Upon receiving this letter, it aroused suspicion at the embassy: either it is a forgery, or it was sent with clearly provocative purposes. The embassy left this letter from Oswald unanswered.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 377. L. 115-116. Original. Typewritten text.

No. 53
Brief report of the USSR Embassy in the USA
"Circumstances of the assassination of US President John F. Kennedy"

No. 435                                                                                                     November 29, 1963181
Washington
                                                                                                                           SECRET
                                                                                                                           Copy No. 4

On November 22 at 12:30 PM local time, when President Kennedy was driving in an open car through the streets of Dallas (Texas), an assassination attempt was made on him. The President was fatally wounded by two bullets to the head and neck and, without regaining consciousness, died at the local "Parkland" hospital at approximately 1:00 PM the same day. Simultaneously, Texas Governor Connally, who was riding in the same car, was seriously wounded. Besides them, their wives, two Secret Service agents and a driver were in the car, none of whom were injured.

According to Dallas Police Department reports, at the moment of the assassination, three shots were fired from a window on the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository building when the presidential motorcade slowed to 8-15 miles per hour while turning into a tunnel at the intersection of Elm and Commerce streets.

142