Signal Copy

This letter is clearly provocative in nature: it creates an impression of our close connection with Oswald and our use of him for some purposes. None of the other letters received by the embassy earlier from Oswald ever contained anything similar. He himself was never at our embassy. The suspicion that this letter is a forgery is significantly strengthened by the fact that it is typewritten, while other letters received by the embassy from Oswald earlier were handwritten.

There is a distinct impression that the letter was organized by those who, apparently, have some connection to the president's assassination. It is possible that Oswald himself wrote this letter under dictation, receiving some promises in exchange, and then, as is known, was simply eliminated after its use.

The relevant American authorities undoubtedly know about this letter, as the embassy's correspondence is under constant surveillance. However, they are not using it in any way yet. They haven't yet requested any information about Oswald himself from the embassy. Perhaps they are waiting for another moment.

A question also arises whether there is now some connection between the aforementioned waiting of American authorities and Thomson's considerations (although Thomson himself may not know about this connection) regarding the desirability of certain restraint by the Soviet press¹²⁴ and the actual gradual dampening of the whole Kennedy assassination case. Perhaps the central authorities began to lean toward this when they became aware of all the facts and understood the danger of serious international complications in case of further inflaming by interested U.S. circles, including local Dallas authorities, of the hysteria regarding the president's assassin's connection to the "left" and our inevitable revelatory statements in this case.

Now the main question arises: should we give the American authorities Oswald's last letter if they request our consular correspondence with him (it contains nothing else that could be used for our compromise). Weighing all arguments for and against, we are inclined to have this letter transferred to the authorities in case they request all correspondence, considering that non-transfer of this letter could be used by the organizers of this entire provocation to try to cast a shadow on us.

Please confirm.
Coordinated with A.I. Mikoyan.

A. Dobrynin

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 82-84. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of the USSR MFA.

112