[Signal copy]

exposed themselves and clearly demonstrated the tendentious and false nature of their messages about the so-called connections between Oswald and the Soviet Union and Cuba. The clearly premeditated murder of Oswald, organized by the Dallas police authorities themselves and the forces behind them, demonstrated even more clearly that the whole Oswald story is a dark matter, orchestrated by reactionary circles in the USA and Texas police. Therefore, we mainly limited ourselves to publishing American reports and press commentary from other countries, which by themselves exposed the provocative meaning of American statements about some involvement of the USSR and Cuba in this dirty business. We believe that for now it is hardly expedient to change this position and make any generalizing official statements about which US circles exactly are behind this whole matter.

Regarding Oswald himself, we can report the following information.
American citizen Lee Harvey Oswald, born in 1939, native of New Orleans, Louisiana, arrived in the Soviet Union in October 1959 as a tourist. While in Moscow, he declared to Soviet authorities his desire to remain in the USSR permanently and applied to the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR with a request for Soviet citizenship. This petition by Oswald was rejected by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.

In connection with L.H. Oswald's persistent requests, he was granted temporary residence in the Soviet Union as a foreign citizen. While in the Soviet Union, Oswald lived in Minsk, where he worked at a local radio factory. In April 1961, Oswald married Soviet citizen Prusakova Marina Nikolaevna, born in 1941. In June 1962, Oswald decided to leave the Soviet Union and traveled to the USA with his family, having received permission from the US Embassy in Moscow, with which he maintained contact. In early 1963, the Oswald family applied to the USSR Embassy in Washington with a request to allow them entry to the Soviet Union for permanent residence. This request was rejected.

Regarding reports about Oswald's alleged membership in the US Communist Party, the statement by the CPUSA Central Committee published on November 23 is obviously known, which categorically denied insinuations that Oswald "has any relation to the Communist Party."

Public statements with generalizing political conclusions regarding Oswald himself and his intentions, and moreover about the forces behind Kennedy's killers, made from our side, may give grounds for new insinuations against the USSR and Cuba, which will only draw attention again to an issue that is currently receding into the background, since the events themselves, and especially Oswald's murder, expose the provocative nature of all actions by Texas authorities.

Explain this to Cuban friends.

125