Signal Copy

To His Excellency
Nikita S. Khrushchev
Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
Moscow

While delivering Johnson's message, Thompson verbally reiterated that the new president, like Kennedy, attaches great importance to maintaining personal contact with N.S. Khrushchev and is ready to continue confidential correspondence with him.

At the same time, as if on his own behalf, Thompson asked to keep in mind the desirability of not combining, when possible, in the same messages questions that require familiarization with these messages by a fairly wide circle of people in the White House and State Department, with such questions and considerations that are intended strictly for the president's information only. Regarding messages of the second type, Thompson said that according to Johnson's instructions, only Rusk, Bundy and he, Thompson, will have access to them besides Johnson himself. No one else will be allowed to access them.

I told Thompson that I would convey President Johnson's message to N.S. Khrushchev. To my further remark that it would perhaps be difficult to draw a clear line in the messages that he spoke about, Thompson replied that he agrees with me and that, of course, all this remains entirely at the discretion of the head of the Soviet government.

A. DOBRYNIN

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 329. L. 1 - 3. Copy. Typewritten text on the form of cipher telegram of the 10th Department of the USSR MFA.

No. 60
Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR MFA with the text of J.Kennedy's letter to N.S. Khrushchev expressing gratitude for condolences

Spec. No. 2086 - 2088                                December 4, 1963
Washington
                                                     TOP SECRET
                                                     Copy No. 2
                                                     URGENT

Met with Thompson today at his invitation.
Thompson said that Jacqueline Kennedy, the late president's wife, asked

*On the first page at the top stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."
159