Signal copy

(RGANI), as well as the catalog of materials exhibited at the Caribbean Crisis exhibition, this deficiency has been largely compensated for.

This collection presents documents covering Soviet-American relations from the second half of 1963 to early 1964. The central theme of the publication is the Soviet leadership's reaction to the assassination of J.F. Kennedy, assistance to Americans in its investigation, and establishing contacts with President L. Johnson's new administration. This brief period by historical standards became a unique thaw in the Cold War that began after World War II, a time when hope emerged for its resolution and real cooperation between the two world superpowers.

* * *

The Caribbean Crisis became a turning point in the history of USSR-USA relations. Finding themselves on the brink of deadly nuclear war, the leaders of both states realized that to survive and preserve themselves, they needed to negotiate. From December 1962, dialogue resumed between Moscow and Washington regarding the limitation of weapons of mass destruction, which had begun intermittently in the late 1950s. This led to the activation of preparation and signing process in early 1963 at the level of experts and diplomats of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water, later known as the Moscow Treaty. In parallel, on Soviet initiative, discussion began regarding the conclusion of a Non-Aggression Pact between NATO and the Warsaw Treaty Organization, while discussions on German and other issues continued.

On June 10, 1963, J.F. Kennedy delivered his famous "Strategy of Peace" speech to American University graduates in Washington. In it, the US President publicly announced White House plans to limit nuclear weapons and paid much attention to peaceful coexistence with the USSR. He called for reconsidering attitudes toward the Soviet Union, proposed to "salute the Russian people for their many achievements - in science and space, in economic and industrial growth, in culture and in acts of courage" and reminded that "no nation in the history of battle ever suffered more than the Soviet Union suffered in the course of World War II." Additionally, Kennedy spoke about the need to pay more attention to human rights.

_________________
6 The Caribbean Crisis: 60 years later. Comp.: Permyakov I.A., Dzhalilov T.A., Kradetskaya S.V., Prozumenshchikov M.Yu. M., 2023.

2