Special copy

Johnson thanked for conveying the message and said that the U.S. government would continue the policy of information exchange and direct communications.

"When I was a boy," Johnson said, "an old man told me that the best judgment can be made based on information, and information can only be obtained through contacts. This points to the importance of direct communication between us," he added.

"I can tell you," Johnson stated, "that there will be no changes in Kennedy's policy. We are glad that Congress and progressive organizations in the USA approved the negotiations and exchange of views that took place between the U.S. President and Chairman N.S. Khrushchev. And we are encouraged that such relations are shared by both your and our peoples.

"Our constant and daily concern," he continued, "will be the pursuit of peace and seeking solutions for all problems and disagreements that exist between us. I would like to note," Johnson added, "that from our people's perspective, the main problem comes down to subversive activities by Cuba, which inevitably leads to tension in our relations.

"Please convey to Chairman Khrushchev," Johnson said, "that I hope we can freely exchange views with him. I also express hope that the exchange of messages between us will remain confidential and that today's message will not be published. I also hope that during the next meeting with him, he will see that we have made progress in strengthening peace and that perhaps we will achieve more than under my predecessor."

I replied that I had listened to Johnson's statements with satisfaction. Then I said: Regarding your comment about the alleged subversive activities by Cuba, I want to note that it is difficult to understand how small Cuba could conduct subversive activities against any state in general, let alone such a large state as the USA. On the contrary, the whole world sees that subversive actions are being conducted against Cuba, that there are numerous, well-financed organizations carrying out such actions. All subversive activity must cease. For my part, I can say that, as I well know, Cuba would most like to see all subversive activity end. During my stay in Cuba¹²⁸, Fidel Castro told me that he strives to establish good relations with the USA. In connection with the tragedy that befell the USA, Fidel Castro, as is known, made a dignified statement¹²⁹, in which he spoke as a true humanist. Therefore, I would like to ask you not to succumb to press fabrications, as I believe good relations with Cuba are in your interests as well.

Johnson responded to this by saying that he only wanted to reflect the attitude of the American people and point out the problem that causes Americans the greatest concern. I with all

115