Signal Copy

soon communicate in a strictly unofficial form, will not somehow be changed in the future by the US Congress itself, which according to the constitution and tradition has the corresponding rights. But he, Rusk, continues to think about the usefulness of such unofficial exchange of opinions "on mutual intentions."

3. Recalling his statements in conversations with A.A. Gromyko "about the subversive activities of the Castro government," Rusk asked to convey to him in this regard in a strictly personal, unofficial form, that the three tons of weapons seized recently in Venezuela, as precisely established, came from Cuba (we, said Rusk, verified, in particular, the numbers of rifles purchased by Castro in Belgium at the time and now seized in Venezuela).

I am saying this, Rusk noted, not as some kind of presentation or remark. This cannot be the subject of an official conversation between us, since the Castro government itself exercises power in its country and hardly consults with anyone when making decisions about transferring weapons to one Latin American country or another ("although the Chinese, Rusk threw in as if in passing, might be involved here"). I, Rusk said in conclusion, do not want to exaggerate the significance of this incident in Venezuela at all, it is not that great, but I would simply like to bring this latest example to the attention of A.A. Gromyko, with whom we previously discussed this topic, of course, I do not expect any response in this regard and ask never to mention what I said today in official talks and negotiations.

I told Rusk that the widely known recent events in Venezuela, to speak frankly, once again clearly show to the whole world that the Betancourt regime enjoys no popular support, especially now, on the eve of elections, and therefore isn't it logical to expect – and so, apparently, it actually is – that this regime is ready to resort to any provocation, even of international character, just to stay in power.

Rusk smiled but said nothing more.

Considerable time was devoted to discussing the issue of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. However, Rusk said nothing new compared to his previous statements on this topic. I again explained our position to him.

Rusk noted during the conversation that the upcoming NATO session in December of this year will be "routine" in nature and, apparently, questions about creating NATO nuclear forces will not be substantially discussed there (Rusk threw in a remark that these issues "are generally discussed through other channels," but did not develop this topic).

The trip of the new President Johnson to the upcoming NATO session, said Rusk, is not planned yet, although not completely ruled out. Apparently thinking aloud, Rusk said, Johnson might instead make a trip to Europe in spring to meet with several heads of US allied countries. But for now, meetings of the new president with other heads are not precisely planned, although there is a principal agreement about such meetings with some of them.

151