Signal Copy

Archeographic Preface

The collection of documents "The Assassination of U.S. President J.F. Kennedy and Soviet-American Relations" was prepared as part of an ongoing project for the publication by the Russian State Archive of Contemporary History of documents from the "Cold War" period. The starting point of this project can be considered the preparation and publication, under the editorship of Academician A.A. Fursenko, of the fundamental publication "Presidium of the CPSU Central Committee" and the beginning of studying a new array of historical sources that accumulated in the activities of the highest party organ, the true history of the confrontation between two systems after World War II.

The compilers of the collection aimed to reflect, based on archival sources, one of the complex periods of Soviet-American relations in the 1960s: the restoration of full-fledged trust contacts at the highest level between the leaders of the Soviet Union and the United States of America after the Caribbean Crisis, the tragic death of U.S. President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, and the establishment of first contacts with the new president Lyndon Johnson.

The central place in the collection is occupied by the topic related to the Soviet side's reaction to Kennedy's assassination and the beginning of interaction with the new U.S. President L. Johnson. For the first time, on a strictly documentary basis, the active assistance of Soviet authorities in investigating this crime is shown. The selection of documents for inclusion in the collection was carried out primarily considering the criterion of their novelty and compliance with the publication's intended purpose.

Most documents were previously kept in closed storage in the Archive of the President of the Russian Federation (former archive of the Politburo of the CPSU Central Committee) and have only recently been transferred to the Russian State Archive of Contemporary History. All published materials have undergone the established declassification procedure.

The compilers chose a subject-chronological principle of document systematization. All documents are grouped into four sections, arranged chronologically within sections, while maintaining a unified through numbering. Given that materials within sections are arranged chronologically, the inevitable partial loss of cause-and-effect relationships between documents is restored in comments (content notes) using cross-references.

The first section of the collection includes documents on Soviet-American relations at the highest level during the beginning of the election campaign in the United States. They mainly

¹ Presidium of the CPSU Central Committee, 1954-1964. Draft protocol records of meetings. Stenograms. Resolutions. In 3 volumes - M.: ROSSPEN, 2003-2008.
² The Vienna waltz of the Cold War (around the meeting of N.S. Khrushchev and J.F. Kennedy in 1961 in Vienna). Documents. - M.: ROSSPEN, 2011; Nikita Sergeevich Khrushchev. Two colors of time. Documents from N.S. Khrushchev's personal collection. In 2 volumes - M.: MFD, 2009; New World in Europe (USSR, FRG and Moscow Treaty of 1970 according to CPSU Central Committee documents) - M.: Kuchkovo pole, 2020.

16