Signal copy

Heads of embassies and missions, as well as other guests may, if they wish, proceed to Arlington Cemetery using their available means of transport.

All participants of the funeral ceremony proceed on foot to the burial site upon arrival at Arlington Cemetery.

Around 14:00 - brief funeral ceremony at Arlington Cemetery, details of which will be announced additionally.

15:30 - it is proposed (although not yet finally decided)ᵃ the President's widow will hostᵇ a teaᶜ at the White House for heads of foreign states, governments and government delegations who arrived for the funeral (it is expected that from the Soviet side, besides comrade A.A. Mikoyan, comrades Dobrynin A.F. and Smirnovsky M.N. will also be invited)ᵈ.

17:00 - President Johnson hosts a reception at the State Department for heads of foreign states, governments and government delegations who arrived for the funeral (from the Soviet side besides comrade A.I. Mikoyan, comradesᵉ Dobrynin A.F. and Smirnovsky M.N. will be invited).

GA RF. F. R-5446. Op. 120. D. 1821. L. 22. Copy (2 copies). Typewritten text on paper with watermark "Eagle A Trojan Bond".

No. 34
Note from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko and KGB Chairman under the USSR Council of Ministers V.E. Semichastniy regarding the exposure of American press fabrications about L.H. Oswald's connections with the USSR

No. 03381/GS                                                                                               November 25, 1963ᶠ

Secret. Copy No. 1

The American press has been spreading various slanderous fabrications about some "connections" with the Soviet Union and Cuba of Lee Harvey Oswald, who was accused by American authorities of assassinating US President J. Kennedy, and was then himself killed under mysterious circumstances. Meanwhile, some American press outlets

ᵃ Here and further all corrections made in simple pencil. Words "15:30 - it is proposed (although not yet finally decided)" are crossed out and written "Immediately after burial".
ᵇ Word "host" crossed out and written "receive".
ᶜ Words "tea for" crossed out.
ᵈ Words "Entry through Northwest gates" added.
ᵉ Word crossed out.
ᶠ Note in simple pencil at bottom left "See new document MID No. 3438/cc dated 29.XI.63".

105