electronic and presentation tools so that viewers can actively perceive the events that the exhibits narrate. For example, a room can be created where visitors can enter a booth, select any Kennedy speech or an important episode from the events of his time and then watch a film or listen to an audio recording of the actual event. The Museum's goal will be to enable visitors, especially students and young people, to gain the most direct and tangible understanding of historical events from the recent past.

The Archive will collect personal documents of President Kennedy, his family and associates, as well as copies of state archival documents necessary for understanding the problems faced by his administration and the actions taken; recordings of interviews with his colleagues and contemporaries. There will also be a collection of books, journals, newspapers and printed documents relating to President Kennedy and his time. It is hoped that this Archive will become a center for studying mid-20th century America, its main domestic and foreign policy problems, its ideas about itself and its destiny. The Archive will have necessary facilities for research work, including study rooms, state-of-the-art equipment for ongoing history lecture programs, for making copies of documents, working with microfilms and full utilization of recorded materials and visual aids.

The Institute will strive to contribute to one of the main tasks that concerned President Kennedy - to continue his tireless effort to bring together the world of ideas and the world of practical affairs, the world of science and the world of solutions, as, for example, occurred in the early years of the American republic. No other goal inspired him so consistently, and no other cause could better serve his memory. The institute will be led by a person combining academic reputation with practical experience in state affairs. The institute's purpose will be to engage young Americans and young people in other countries in understanding and practicing democratic political life and public service. It will be a living institution responding to the needs of the time, and therefore its resources and programs should not be strictly regulated in advance; however, it can be assumed that the Institute will seek to bring together intellectual and public affairs in many ways - through lectures and seminars conducted by professors, politicians and officials from all parties from both the United States and other countries; through creation of departments possibly headed by joint appointment professors from Harvard and other nearby universities; through organizing meetings for senior students interested in political life and state affairs; through establishment of scholarships for students and scholars, both American and foreign; through a program

209