[Signal copy]

from Germany are collected by each state in its occupation zone, however, considering the greatest destruction on the territory of the Soviet Union, the USSR additionally was to receive from the western zones 25% of dismantled capital equipment not necessary for the German peacetime economy (of which 15% in exchange for equivalent deliveries of coal, petroleum products, metals and other raw materials). Also, the territory of Germany, on which the Kaliningrad region was formed, was separated from the USSR. After the actual formation of two German states, the USSR ceased collecting reparations from the GDR territory. According to the Paris Peace Treaties signed on February 10, 1947, by the Allied powers with former Nazi allies (Italy, Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Finland), these states were also to pay war reparations to compensate countries that suffered from their actions - USSR, Yugoslavia, Greece, Czechoslovakia and Ethiopia. Finland fully paid reparations to the USSR by 1952. After the formation of people's democratic governments in Hungary and Romania, the volume of reparations on their request was reduced by 50%, and then practically ceased.

32 Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistani army Muhammad Ayub Khan on October 7, 1958, by order of President Pakistan Iskander Mirza carried out a coup, during which martial law was introduced. After the coup, he was appointed head of the Martial Law Administration. On October 27, he forced Iskander Mirza to resign and leave the country. That same day he was proclaimed the new President of Pakistan and head of government. In 1960, he legitimized his position through a referendum.

33 In 1950, for the first time in Guatemala, a peaceful transfer of power occurred: Jacobo Arbenz Guzman won victory in presidential elections. The democratically elected president began implementing a reform package that was supposed to improve the position of ordinary Guatemalans. In particular, during his rule, unused and redistributed lands in favor of peasants were nationalized from the American United Fruit Company. After the first land expropriation, the US State Department filed a protest with the Guatemalan government and demanded compensation from the Arbenz government for damages caused. Simultaneously, the CIA began preparing operations to overthrow the legitimate president. In March 1954 at the X Inter-American Conference, legal grounds for intervention against Guatemala were obtained when the American delegation led by Secretary of State J.F. Dulles managed to push through the conference the anti-communist "Caracas Declaration." Under the pretext of fighting the "communist threat" in Latin America, this resolution sanctioned joint intervention by Latin American countries against Guatemala. In mid-June 1954, armed groups of mercenaries entered from Honduras and Nicaragua territory, numbering about 27 people under pressure from which, acting in coordination with US intelligence services, President Arbenz was forced to resign. Power in the country fell into the hands of a junta led by Colonel Carlos Armas, who canceled the social and economic reforms of his predecessor.

34 This refers to Ngo Dinh Diem in 1955 becoming, based on the results of a nationwide referendum, the first president of the Republic of Vietnam (South Vietnam), actively cooperating with the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam (Vietcong). On November 2, 1963, killed during a military coup.

35 This refers to the American War of Independence (American Revolutionary War) 1775-1785.

36 This refers to the Civil War in Spain (July 1936 - April 1939). As a result of victory, the dictatorship of Generalissimo Francisco Franco was established in the country. On December 27, 1950, the USA announced the appointment of an ambassador to Madrid, which became official recognition of Franco's regime.

37 The meeting of foreign ministers of the USSR, PRC, USA, Great Britain and France with participation of representatives from Indochina countries was held in Geneva from April 26 to July 21, 1954, on the question of Democratic Republic of Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Republic of Vietnam. On July 21, agreements were signed which formulated the foundations for ceasefire and principles of political settlement in Indochina: cessation of military actions, demilitarization and neutralization of Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, ban on arms supplies, military equipment and military materials to these countries. To monitor compliance with the Geneva agreements, an International Commission was created consisting of representatives from India, Poland and Canada. According to the "Agreement on cessation of military actions in Vietnam," regrouping of forces to designated zones for each side should be completed within 80-300 days: for DRV - northern Vietnam, for French forces - southern Vietnam. To separate the fighting sides, a temporary demarcation line was established, not to be moved south of the 17th parallel. Political settlement in Vietnam was envisioned based on general free elections. The deadline was set for July 1956. Implementation of Geneva agreements on general elections in Vietnam was disrupted due to their proclamation in October 1955 by Republic of Vietnam and President Ngo Dinh Diem's refusal to conduct them. American representatives refused to join the Final

241