Signal Copy

No. 11

Resolution of the Presidium of the CC CPSU "On informing First Secretaries of CC of fraternal parties of GDR, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Mongolia and Cuba regarding the conversations of USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs Comrade A.A. Gromyko with US President Kennedy, US Secretary of State Rusk and British Foreign Secretary Home in New York and Washington"

No. П120/XIII                                                                                                   October 25, 1963

Approve the draft information for First Secretaries of CC of fraternal parties of GDR, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Mongolia and Cuba regarding the conversations of USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs Comrade A.A. Gromyko with US President Kennedy, US Secretary of State Rusk and British Foreign Secretary Home in New York and Washington.

[Attachment]

Secret

BERLIN, WARSAW, PRAGUE, BUDAPEST, BUCHAREST,
SOFIA, ULAN BATOR, HAVANA
                                                        SOVPOSOL

Visit Comrade Ulbricht (Gomulka, Novotny, Kadar, Dej, Zhivkov, Tsedenbal, Castro) and, referring to the instructions from CPSU and Soviet government, communicate verbally in confidential manner the following information about Comrade Gromyko's conversations with Kennedy, Rusk and Home during his recent stay in New York and Washington.

Questions of German peace settlement and normalization of the situation in West Berlin*. During meetings with Kennedy, Rusk and Home, the previous position of the Soviet government was confirmed regarding the conclusion of German peace treaty and normalization on its basis of the situation in West Berlin (liquidation of occupation regime in West Berlin, replacement of NATO flag with UN flag, transformation of West Berlin into a free city, respect for GDR sovereignty, etc.)76.

Comrade Gromyko insisted during the conversations on the speediest resolution of the German peace settlement issue, emphasizing that for ensuring lasting peace in Europe, the conclusion of German peace treaty maintains all its relevance. In conversation with Kennedy, Comrade Gromyko said that the Soviet government regrets that the US government apparently shows no understanding of the importance and urgency of concluding the German peace treaty from the viewpoint of European security and ensuring peace throughout the world. Although the Soviet government does not specify deadlines

*Here and further underlined in the original document.

62