[Special copy]

7. The President of Israel Zalman Shazar approached me, and then the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Israel Golda Meir approached. The President spoke in a friendly manner about the Soviet Union, recalling his trip to the Soviet Union as a tourist last year. He spent a whole month in the Soviet Union, visited Moscow and Leningrad. He speaks Russian well, being originally from Minsk, studied in Petersburg. During World War I, he went abroad. Minister Golda Meir also recalled the time when she was an ambassador to the USSR¹⁵².

8. Pakistan's Minister of Foreign Affairs Bhutto, whom I knew from negotiations with him on economic issues that took place several years ago in Moscow¹⁵³, also approached me. He stated that President Ayub Khan, upon learning that I would be in Washington, instructed him to convey through me to the Soviet government their desire to seriously improve relations between our countries. Times have changed, circumstances are different, he said, and conclusions must be drawn from this. They have no contradictions with us. There are conditions now for good relations. An aviation agreement has been signed¹⁵⁴. It has for them not so much practical as political significance as a first step toward serious improvement of relations.

He spoke well of the work of Soviet specialists - geologists working in Pakistan. I expressed my agreement regarding the possibility and necessity of improving relations and promised to convey President Ayub Khan's opinion to N.S. Khrushchev.

A. Mikoyan

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 50 - 56. Copy. Typewritten text on the form of cipher telegram of the 10th Department of the USSR MFA.

No. 41
Note from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko and KGB Chairman
under the USSR Council of Ministers V.E. Semichastniy to the CPSU Central Committee
regarding New York Times correspondent G. Tanner's request to permit travel to Minsk
to gather information about L.H. Oswald

No. 3412/GS                                                                                                                     November 27, 1963

Secret. Copy No. 1

TO CC CPSU

The Moscow correspondent of the "New York Times" Tanner, referring to instructions from his editorial office, has approached the Press Department of the USSR MFA with a request to permit him travel

*Bottom right of the page contains a note in purple ink "Accepted by Presidium members of CC 28.XI-63. To be processed. 28.XI-63 V.Malin"

121