[Reference copy]

the agreement will not exclude the possibility of creating multilateral NATO nuclear forces62. The Americans' departure from the principle of absolutely preventing other states from possessing and disposing of nuclear weapons remains the main disagreement between the positions of the USSR and the USA on this issue. The exchange of views on this issue, as well as on other issues related to multilateral rather than bilateral relations, has quite clearly shown that the Kennedy administration is still avoiding entering into such agreements with us that cause serious objections from their NATO allies, primarily West Germany.

The initial American interest in the issue of control posts clearly disappeared as soon as they learned that we continue to link this issue with the question of reducing foreign troops in Europe and the non-deployment of nuclear weapons on the territory of the two German states. Since in a different context this issue is of no interest to us, it apparently has little prospect in terms of reaching a concrete agreement, although we can continue to use it for propaganda purposes.

Kennedy realizes that the West Berlin issue continues to remain a very painful "corn" and therefore, one should assume, will be ready to resume the exchange of views on this issue if we show appropriate initiative. However, it is very doubtful that he would agree to resolve this issue on a mutually acceptable basis in the period before the elections - both for foreign policy and domestic political reasons.

Fourth. The conversations between A.A. Gromyko with Kennedy and Rusk, in our view, quite clearly showed the American leaders' desire to maintain and even develop, in a certain sense, the confidential nature of exchanges of views on a number of issues between the governments of both countries and especially their leaders. In this connection, one cannot fail to note Kennedy's quite clearly manifested tendency toward a certain tacit agreement with N.S. Khrushchev, without formal and even more so public agreement, on freezing military budgets and some mutual reduction of forces in both German states.

Some very frank statements by Rusk made in conversations with A.A. Gromyko (about West Germany, GDR, Japan, India) are indicative, clearly calculated to create a certain atmosphere of confidential relations. All this is especially clear if we recall that just a year ago, during the Cuban crisis63, the same American leaders strongly played up the theme of impossibility to trust the Soviet Union.

Naturally, the behavior of both Kennedy and Rusk is explained not least by their desire to maintain or even somewhat improve the current more favorable atmosphere in Soviet-American relations, without any unexpected sharp

57