Signal Copy

inviting teachers to deliver lecture courses; through organizing scientific groups and conferences with participation of scientists and practitioners to address important problems; through publication programs; through awarding prizes for literary works and public service, as well as through many other means. The Institute will not be bound by any program or policy, except for the spirit of free and rational research inherent to President Kennedy himself

X X X

According to the 1955 law P.248, permitting the establishment of presidential libraries, the libraries themselves must be built through fundraising by subscription and then transferred to the United States government. The General Services Administration (National Archives) will thereafter assume responsibility for maintaining the buildings, as well as for operating the memorial hall, museum and archive. The legislation, however, does not provide for the creation of an institute, and this project, being the most distinctive part of this concept, will require significant donations.

According to calculations, the construction of the Kennedy Library with its memorial hall, museum and archive, and the establishment of the institute will require a sum of 10 million dollars.

Translated by Yu. Sokolikov
I. Bubkov

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 135 - 138. Original. Translation from English, typewritten text.

№ 80

Memorandum from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko to N.S. Khrushchev
regarding the advisability of providing materials
for the J.F. Kennedy Memorial Library

№ 1268/GS                                                                                                    April 19, 1964

Secret. Copy № 1

To Comrade N.S. KHRUSHCHEV

As a memorial to President J. Kennedy in the USA (Boston, Harvard University area), it is proposed to build the "Kennedy Library" with a memorial hall,

[Footnotes:]
* On the reverse of the last attachment page, there is a note in blue ballpoint pen "Into file. O. Troyanovsky 13.VII.64". The note is crossed out in regular pencil.
b At the top of the page, there is a resolution in blue ballpoint pen "Distribute and include in the agenda of the Presidium CC meeting (as indicated by N.S. Khrushchev) 25.V.64 O.Troyanovsky".

210