[Signal Copy]

The assassination of President Kennedy showed us, Walton said, that the vice president must also be our man. Johnson's selection was D. Kennedy's mistake. I still don't understand, Walton continued, why he chose this Texan. When D. Kennedy was selecting a vice-presidential candidate, there were only two candidates - Senators Symington and Jackson. R. Kennedy wrote their names on pieces of paper and threw them in a hat. D. Kennedy pulled out the paper that said "Symington." Why he changed his mind is unclear. This is a bitter lesson for all of us.

Therefore, in the future, the president needs to pay more attention to selecting the vice-presidential candidate, so that he could be a worthy successor. What the Kennedy people are striving for now is, apparently, to secure the vice-presidential position for themselves. These days I heard two candidates' names in the White House - Senator H. Humphrey and President Roosevelt's son[211]. But in my opinion, these are not the candidates.

During the conversation, Walton inquired whether I was planning to write a book about President Kennedy. This step, Walton said, would be well received in our country, since no Russian knew President Kennedy or his family so well. Walton asked me, if possible, to help him arrange a meeting with A.I. Adzhubey[212].

Walton reported that he met with me today because tomorrow, on instructions from the US Ambassador to Moscow Kohler, he is moving to his residence and he didn't want the embassy to know about this meeting. He said that upon returning to Washington, he would only tell R. Kennedy about meeting with me.

Walton said he was reluctant to move to Kohler's residence since he, along with Jackie Kennedy and Robert Kennedy, had opposed his appointment as ambassador to the USSR, and Kohler undoubtedly knows this. In conclusion, Walton said he would call me at work from the city at the end of this week and we would arrange a possible next meeting.

G. BOLSHAKOV
December 11, 1963

Archive of the Main Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation.
Copy. Typewritten text.

No. 64
Resolution of the Presidium of the CPSU Central Committee "On the response to US Secretary of State D. Rusk regarding his inquiry about the motives for rejecting American citizen Oswald's request for Soviet citizenship"

No. П126/116                                                                                     December 10, 1963[213]

Approve the draft instructions to the Soviet embassy in the USA on this matter (attached).

169