Reference copy

and You replied that overall the conversation went well and that N.S. Khrushchev is a very strong person who knows how to use all possibilities to prove the correctness of his point of view.

"Therefore," I continued, "contacts and mutual understanding between N.S. Khrushchev and you began even then. This pleases us, and I repeat, we just talked about this with N.S. Khrushchev before my departure to Washington. My own meetings with you also indicate that we can develop contacts and good mutual understanding with each other."

Johnson smiled with satisfaction, showing that he liked these statements. He said that we would leave a poor memory of ourselves in human history if we could not find an answer to the question of how to live peacefully and beneficially together, in peace with each other. This is the main problem of our time. Kennedy and Chairman Khrushchev, he continued, along with their associates, seem to have moved forward in this direction, but now the main thing is to find an answer to this question, because if we could find such an answer, how much better the world would become. We quite frankly want to cooperate with all peoples, with all countries. We hope that no one will treat us with hostility. For our part, we have no territorial claims against anyone and do not want to dominate anyone.

I know that the main thought that literally occupied Kennedy every day is what steps can be taken to strengthen mutual understanding between peoples. And I fully share his policy. It, this policy, will continue to be respected; and we are ready to go more than halfway to meet any government.

"We," Johnson continued, "have no intentions to invade Cuba. However, the Cuban problem has very serious significance for our people. We hope that with time we will be able to find an answer to the problems facing us, which would allow us to lead our people forward to peace and mutual understanding. This is already happening partially and tension in the world has changed. We face many quite difficult problems, and if there appears a sign that at some point we can achieve improved relations, we will go our part of the way toward this goal.

We are devoted to our system and intend to preserve it, but this does not mean that we want to enslave any other peoples or establish our dominion over them.

I replied that I was pleased to hear these words from the new U.S. President. Your desire, I continued, to live in peace and friendship with other countries fully corresponds to our views.

"Allow me," I said, "to read and convey to you N.S. Khrushchev's message, which I brought for you." Then comrade Sukhodrev read in English the text of the message, which Johnson listened to with great attention.

114