Special Copy

since Lee Oswald spent some time in the Soviet Union, and information about this period of Lee Oswald's life has certain significance for the investigation.

N.S. Khrushchev says that he has no doubt about Warren's and this commission's good intentions in their pursuit to find the true assassin of President Kennedy. However, the conditions under which this commission works in the USA are very complicated.

D. Pierson notes that there are indeed some fascist elements in the USA that are trying to obstruct this investigation.

N.S. Khrushchev says that in the Soviet Union there were also complicated criminal cases, but we mobilized our entire judicial-investigative apparatus and each time identified the true criminals.

D. Pierson asks whether it's possible to assume that the true killer was indeed Lee Oswald, acting alone. He was a strange person. And if he committed the murder, he could have done it for worldwide sensation and fame.

N.S. Khrushchev responds that it's impossible for such a crime to be committed alone. For Lee Oswald's mind, this crime was too complex. A whole group of people acted here according to a pre-developed plan. One person cannot commit such a crime.

D. Pierson says that Lee Oswald was in some sense a purposeful person. Take the fact that he independently studied Russian language, then traveled to the Soviet Union, obtained residence rights in the Soviet Union.

N.S. Khrushchev notes that studying a foreign language doesn't say anything by itself. Our dump truck drivers and other workers working in Aswan side by side with Arabs learn the language in six months. They communicate with Arabs and explain things to them.

D. Pierson says that he learned Russian not in Russia, but in the USA while serving in the marine infantry. In her opinion, Lee Oswald was a madman who wanted to become great even at the cost of killing the president.

N.S. Khrushchev notes that American press openly writes about Lee Oswald being a police agent, and he certainly didn't act alone. This was a conspiracy. And Ruby, who killed Oswald, is also a police agent, as American press writes about this. The organizers of President Kennedy's assassination are carefully confusing the case. It's not by chance that now, after some time, evidence appears in American newspapers that the shot was made not from the place as officially reported.

D. Pierson notes that this is true, and adds that nobody knows exactly how the bullet that hit the president entered and exited. There are several versions regarding this.

N.S. Khrushchev says that the true killer of the president was certainly not Lee Oswald. He is a fall guy. He was too small for this. And even if he wanted to commit

188