Signal copy

major steps in relations with the USSR, especially if they required a decision by the US Congress. Certain issues (for example, the Non-Aggression Pact) the Americans diplomatically suggested discussing later, while others were to be formalized not through the US Congress, but through a UN General Assembly resolution. This is how the US president proposed to approve the Treaty on the Prevention of Nuclear Weapons in Space.

At the same time, meetings and conversations with Gromyko demonstrated that American leaders wanted to maintain and further develop a trusting dialogue with Soviet leaders on preventing potential nuclear war, as well as on the entire spectrum of bilateral relations. This was reflected in an analytical memo by Soviet Ambassador to Washington A.F. Dobrynin, sent to Moscow just a month before Kennedy's assassination. It emphasized that USSR-USA relations were experiencing a "new period." The Ambassador believed that in developing these relations, it was necessary to consider the complex internal situation in America, "the influence of increasingly active extremely reactionary forces" and the danger of international complications related to "the threat of US interference in other countries' internal affairs," that "in improving American-Soviet relations and resolving disputed international problems, one should not rush, [...] in this direction one needs to move step by step, carefully planning and spacing out the steps taken over time, as well as trying where possible to give the achieved agreements such a form that would not require ratification by the US Senate"10.

In turn, the Soviet leader was impressed that he managed to establish informal, personal contacts with the American president. In conversations with his son, Khrushchev said that he needed six more years to establish normal relations with America11. However, this inspiring optimism in the course of events was interrupted on November 22, 1963, by shots in Dallas.

Dobrynin was the first to learn about the assassination attempt on Kennedy. In his memoirs, he reported that he heard about the events in Dallas on the radio while at the dentist12. Postponing the filling procedure, Dobrynin immediately returned to the Soviet embassy and from there contacted Moscow. Taking into account the time difference, the ambassador's verbal report to the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs

10 See doc. No. 9.
11 Khrushchev. Nikita Khrushchev... p. 540.
12 Dobrynin. Strictly Confidential... p. 95-96.

4