and the Soviet people want to work most productively and want peace. The governments of the USA and USSR must give their peoples this opportunity.

Rask further notes that, in his opinion, only Chairman Khrushchev and President Kennedy truly understand what war is. There are, of course, other people who know the technical details well, but the responsibility for the fate of peace lies with these two leaders. Therefore, it is necessary to strive to seek and find solutions on as many issues as possible. War in our time is a terrible phenomenon. President Kennedy recently in one of his speeches quoted to the American people N.S. Khrushchev's statements about the true nature of modern war.

Rask goes on to say that history has connected both the USSR and USA with Germany. This, of course, affects the Soviet Union more, which suffered significantly more from Hitler's forces. Since the Soviet Union and USA fought Hitler together, they must not allow the German question to divide them. As for the peace treaty, the USA is concerned not by the idea of a peace treaty itself, but by the circumstance that it may lead to ossification of the current situation.

In 1954, the Western powers solemnly declared that they would not attempt to change existing borders by force28. True, this was done for another reason, but this solemn obligation remains in force. The USA deeply regrets that the USSR does not agree with their point of view. They ask to believe what they are saying. They hope that the USSR will agree that to resolve the German question on a permanent basis, it must be linked to the desires of the interested peoples. However, Rask cannot imagine how East Germans could express their will. According to Rask, if the USA and USSR divide the people of West and East Germany without their consent and leave, this will simply sow seeds of discord and not eliminate the danger of war in the future. The German people must organize their own destiny.

We agree, Rask continues, that Germany should not have national nuclear power. Our position is the same on this. We believe there are already enough nuclear powers. As you know, we pursue exactly such a policy, and this has led to our relations with France becoming very strained. We do not want Germans to have nuclear weapons, either of their own production or transferred to them by others.

Let's assume that our relations will continue to calm down and improve. This requires making certain efforts, allowing more contacts, communication not only between West and East Germany, but also between the West and socialist countries. As you can see, Rask jokes, I have already learned to use this word. Already now we can say there are signs of improvement in the situation. The situation which seemed difficult two or three years ago is now improving. I also believe we can achieve progress in solving the disarmament problem. There are measures on which we can

39