Special copy

SECTION III

"WE ARE UNDERSTANDING OF THE INTENTION TO CREATE THE JOHN F. KENNEDY MEMORIAL LIBRARY"

Documents on providing materials for
the Presidential Library and Museum of John F. Kennedy

February 26 - August 28, 1964

No. 78

Letter from the U.S. Attorney General R. Kennedy to N.S. Khrushchev
regarding assistance in collecting materials for the J.F. Kennedy Memorial Library

February 26, 1964

Dear Mr. Chairman,

As I recently explained to Ambassador Dobrynin, the main memorial to my brother will be a library, which will be erected in his honor in Boston, Massachusetts, near Harvard College, where he spent his young years. He chose the site for the library before his death and intended to make the library his personal headquarters after his presidency.

The John F. Kennedy Library will serve several purposes. It will be a memorial to President Kennedy. It will be a museum containing items associated with the memory of President Kennedy and his time, for visitors, we hope, from all over the world. It will be an archive containing papers and documents necessary for studying President Kennedy's life and times; this too, we hope, will attract scholars and students from around the world. And it will be an institute designed to continue one of my brother's main life mottos - his efforts to unite the world of science and the world of action, the world of ideas and the world of power.

One distinctive feature of the library should be an oral history program. As you know, documents alone do not reflect the full historical reality of a situation (and this is especially true in our age, when typewriters multiply the number of documents, while the telephone reduces their importance). For this reason, we are organizing a program of recorded interviews. The program's goal is to obtain and record

[Original on letterhead with the emblem of the U.S. Department of Justice and the inscription "Office of the Attorney General Washington, D.C." On the reverse of the last page is the note "To file. O.Troyanovskiy. 13.VII.64." The note is crossed out in pencil.]

205