Signal copy

represents ordinary consular correspondence with a person applying for a visa to enter another country. No newspaper mentions Oswald's letter of November 9. Apparently, the FBI and State Department have decided not to disclose this letter for now.

We have no doubt that the publication of messages about our transfer of correspondence with Oswald was made on Rusk's own instruction, apparently coordinated with the president. The whole story with the mythical correspondent was invented to somehow explain to us the fact of publishing these messages. American leaders were apparently hesitant to approach us for consent to such publication, fearing our refusal, and they, it seems, considered it useful to communicate this from the perspective of showing to broad circles of the American population the normal business state of Soviet-American relations, despite recent events.

Observing the initial reaction, one can say that the news about our voluntary transfer of correspondence with Oswald has produced an overall positive and favorable impression on American public opinion.

2. Although Rusk strongly emphasized in his conversation with me the unofficial and calm nature of his statements regarding the seizure of Cuban weapons in Venezuela and clearly sought to create an impression of his desire to merely personally inform A.A. Gromyko about "another example of Castro's interference" in Latin American affairs, we get the impression this was done with a specific purpose.

On Tuesday, the Organization of American States (OAS) will consider Venezuela's official complaint regarding "subversive actions of the Castro government," where one of the main pieces of evidence will be the aforementioned seizure of weapons allegedly delivered from Cuba. Venezuela intends to request collective adoption of additional measures against Cuba. According to some data, a proposal will be made for all remaining Latin American countries to sever diplomatic relations with it. The US government, according to the same unofficial sources, intends to support new measures against Cuba within the OAS framework, and also to strengthen the patrolling of its naval vessels in the Caribbean area to "intercept Cuban contraband."

If all this information about new measures being prepared in the OAS against Cuba corresponds to reality, it is logical to assume that the US government and the new president, wishing to soften or prevent possible deterioration of Soviet-American relations due to the indicated measures regarding Cuba, found it expedient to somehow "prepare" us for these measures through Rusk's "unofficial and personal" statements.

I think it would be useful to give in our press a proper assessment of the events now unfolding around Venezuela's accusations against Cuba.

A. Dobrynin
155