Signal copy

g) Develop now a program-minimum and program-maximum for conducting unofficial exchange of opinions with the American side on matters of expanding trade between the USSR and USA, highlighting first the issues that could be resolved without Congress's sanction, and second - broader issues (including the matter of concluding a trade agreement, credits, and Lend-Lease settlements), the resolution of which will require the US government to submit certain legislative proposals to Congress.

d) Consider a comprehensive plan of measures regarding relations with the USA, taking into account both the aforementioned and other possible measures, distributing all these measures over time so as to, on one hand, not create an impression of excessive haste, especially given the Kennedy administration's position on timing, but on the other hand, not indulge the Americans in unjustified delays in settling those issues which are already ripe for resolution. Of course, we should simultaneously continue to maintain our principled line on decisively exposing various schemes of US imperialist circles and actions of the American government aimed at continuing the arms race and maintaining international tension (as was the case, for example, in the matter of NATO nuclear forces). Kennedy should have no doubts about this going forward.

Overall, USSR-USA relations are now experiencing, in our view, a new period. We have already forced Kennedy to take a defensive position on several issues, including the Cuban question. Having received resistance to attempts to intimidate us and extract concessions on the Cuban issue and having become convinced that such an approach would not bring him success, the president was forced to readjust. Recently, after our warning, the US government, as far as one can judge, has taken measures to stop the bandit raids by Cuban counter-revolutionary aircraft. The signing of the Moscow Treaty on banning nuclear tests and the favorable reaction of the American people to this, the strengthening of sentiment in the USA in favor of some agreement with the Soviet Union and the easing of international tension - all this has forced Kennedy, who had long been at a crossroads, to choose to conduct his election campaign under slogans of preserving peace, from positions of seeking expedient agreement with the Soviet Union on international problems, although this is sometimes accompanied - paying tribute to entrenched sentiments here - by various reservations, as occurred, for example, in the president's recent speech in Maine. Overall, one can firmly say that all these positive factors are largely the result of the success of our offensive and initiative-taking foreign policy.

60