research institute, museum and archive. The Library is being created on the initiative of the Kennedy family and with President Johnson's approval. Funds for the Library's construction (10 million dollars) are being collected through donations from various organizations and private individuals.

The Library intends to house numerous exhibits, documents, archival and printed materials related to Kennedy's name and his state and socio-political activities. It is planned to organize a special department that will store recorded statements by prominent figures from the USA and foreign states about J. Kennedy.

In this connection, the late president's brother Robert Kennedy has written a letter to you requesting that you agree to record your statements about President Kennedy so that this recording can be included in the Library's collections.

Considering that among broad circles of the American population, J. Kennedy's name is associated with the line of improving Soviet-American relations and that the Kennedy family will likely continue to play a role in the political life of the USA, it would seemingly be desirable to respond somehow to R. Kennedy's request.

For example, it would be possible to prepare for transmission to the "Kennedy Library" a brief recording of your speech with memories about President Kennedy, in which to talk about your impressions and meeting with J. Kennedy in Washington and Vienna, give a brief assessment of Kennedy as a person and as a statesman in light of his statements during the meeting in Vienna, as well as those of his speeches which expressed a sober assessment of the actual balance of power in the world and a realistic approach to solving certain unresolved international problems.

If this is deemed inappropriate, then perhaps it would be worth sending a response from you to R. Kennedy's appeal, with the intention of composing a reply letter in such a way that it could itself become one of the exhibits of the "Kennedy Library."

In the letter, one could give a brief assessment of J. Kennedy as a person and statesman in the spirit of what was contained in the telegrams of condolence regarding the president's death.

It should be noted that in connection with plans to create the "Kennedy Library," other appeals have also been received. For instance, the US President's Press Secretary Salinger, who has now resigned, asked through an embassy staff member in Washington to clarify whether we could provide the Library with any available photomaterials about J. Kennedy. An appeal about the USSR's possible contribution in this or another form besides the creation of the "Kennedy Library" was also received from Eugene Black - a prominent American financier and political figure who has now become chairman of the fund for the construction of this Library.

In response to these appeals, according to the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we could provide the Library with a Soviet chronicle-documentary film in two parts about your meeting

211