Special bulletin

Dallas was on November nineteenth and was, therefore, known at least seventy-two hours before Oswald reported to work on November twenty-second.

Allegation: There is evidence that a second rifle was found on the roof of the Texas School Book Depository building or on the overpass.

Commission's conclusion: "No second rifle was found in any of the known locations or anywhere else. The shots that struck President Kennedy and Governor Connally were fired from the rifle found on the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository."

Allegation: Oswald could not have had time to make all the movements attributed to him from the time he left the Texas School Book Depository until his meeting with Tippit.

Commission's conclusion: "Time tests of all of Oswald's movements established that these movements could have been made in the time available to him."

Allegation: Oswald received training at a special school for political assassins run by Russians in Minsk.

Commission's conclusion: "Commission investigators found no evidence to support this allegation or the existence of such a school in Minsk during Oswald's stay there. Oswald belonged to a hunting club near Minsk, but there was no indication that it was anything other than an ordinary hunting club."

Allegation: Ruby and Oswald were seen together at the Carousel Club.

Commission's conclusion: "All allegations that Oswald was seen in Ruby's company, or in anyone else's company at the Carousel Club, have been thoroughly investigated. None of them merits any credence."

Allegation: Oswald or his accomplices arranged his escape by airplane from an airport in the Dallas area.

Commission's conclusion: "Investigation of such allegations showed they have no substance whatsoever. The Commission found no evidence that Oswald had any prearranged plans for escape after the assassination."

----

This information bulletin is distributed by the US Embassy in Moscow. The USSR Embassy in Washington enjoys the same privileges.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 195. Original. Typewritten text in English on US State Department letterhead with watermarks. Signature-autograph in black ink. Ibid. L. 194. Original. Translation from English. Typewritten text (1 copy). Ibid. L. 196-203. Copy. Translation from English. Copy reproduced on photocopier.

204