Signal Copy

material on tape which otherwise would not have been recorded on paper and would subsequently be lost forever to future historians.

This program has already begun in Washington; but we believe it would be incomplete if it were limited only to the United States. We want all significant figures and their views to be fully represented; and since very few things concerned President Kennedy more than international peace and our relations with your great country, we consider you, Mr. Chairman, an irreplaceable witness to his policies and hopes. Therefore, I am asking whether you would agree to participate in this effort. Conditions could be arranged to suit you - the choice of interviewer (I have in mind, for example, Mr. Edward R. Murrow, whose independent and courageous work in American television, I am sure, you are familiar with, or Ambassador Thompson, or, quite possibly, you may prefer a Soviet citizen); time, place, etc. I hope you would wish to express your impressions about President Kennedy, his policies, his achievements, his mistakes, his failures with complete openness. Future history would be immeasurably enriched if your views about the Vienna meeting, Berlin crisis, Cuban crisis, test ban negotiations and other episodes of the last three years were recorded on tape, as well as your assessment of the direction in which international affairs were moving and what might have happened if President Kennedy had remained alive.

Of course, much of the material that would be recorded on tape in the oral history program - and this could especially apply to your case, should you agree to participate - would be too confidential to be immediately released to the public. Therefore, each program participant has complete control over access to their interview and may set any conditions they wish, such as sealing the tape completely for any period they may desire. I want to give you my most categorical personal assurances that your interview, should you decide to participate, will be in complete security.

No one will have access to it - neither scholars, nor government officials, nor congressional committees, nor journalists, nor members of the Kennedy family - except under conditions you may wish to set. I give you my word on this. The library's purpose is to collect historical material not for the present generation, but for our descendants. I have no doubt that future historians, American, Soviet, or of any other nationality, will be in your debt if you would add your own testimony to this collection of memories about President Kennedy and his time.

Always sincerely yours,
Robert F. Kennedy

206