Signal copy

of the Soviet Union, medical records (in particular, the medical history from psychosomatic and surgical departments of Botkin Hospital and from the Second Clinical Hospital of Minsk)45. The transfer of all these documents was conducted in a confidential manner - neither governments of other countries, nor journalists, nor Oswald's mother, nor even a great friend of the Soviet Union, English philosopher B. Russell, were allowed access to "Oswald's dossier". Although the transferred materials about Oswald were limited in nature and did not allow forming a complete picture of his stay in the USSR, the Americans highly appreciated the fact of transfer itself.

At the same time, from the end of November 1963, various versions of Kennedy's assassination circulated in official and semi-official American circles. The head of the Washington bureau of "New York Times" J. Reston in conversation with Dobrynin reported that FBI investigators received personal instructions from L. Johnson to check the Cuban and Chinese leads46. Among those close to the Kennedy clan, a persistent version formed that the assassination was part of a larger political conspiracy, in which people close to Johnson could have been involved. W. Walton at a confidential meeting in Moscow stated: "Perhaps there was only one killer, but there were undoubtedly more accomplices in the president's assassination"47.

Khrushchev adhered to a similar version. In conversation with American journalist D. Pearson in Cairo at the end of May 1964, he said: "For Lee Oswald's mind, this is too complex a crime. A whole group of people acted here according to a pre-developed plan. One person cannot commit such a crime." He further added: "Behind this crime stand people who had great opportunities - both material and financial. They are the ones confusing the investigation. It is no coincidence that the assassination happened in Dallas. Kennedy essentially became a victim of his enemies"48.

In connection with perpetuating the memory of the late president, the Soviet side continued to help Americans. On December 5, 1963, two brothers of the deceased president and the president of Harvard University began a campaign to raise funds for the construction of the presidential memorial library, and already on February 26, 1964, Robert wrote letters to Khrushchev, Gromyko and A.I. Adzhubei requesting interviews in which they would share their impressions of the former president. Robert stipulated that since

45 See doc. No. 71.
46 See doc. No. 58.
47 See doc. No. 63.
48 See doc. No. 72.

14