Special copy

He replied that, as far as we know, the USA does not intend to wait for the consent of all its allies to create multilateral forces. True, Turkey and Greece are already involved, but only as a cover for West Germany. After all, these two countries are poor and barely make ends meet, while almost all other US allies are against the creation of these forces.

Rusk said in response to these words that he sees we are well informed about the situation with the creation of multilateral nuclear forces, except for one point. You think, he said, that their creation will allow the West German government to use nuclear weapons at its discretion. This is not the case, and we have no intention of allowing anyone to give orders about the use of nuclear weapons.

Objected that this, however, could happen even against the USA's wishes.

Rusk said that this issue could be discussed later, and added that in any case, the creation of multilateral forces would only marginally increase the amount of nuclear weapons compared to what the USSR and USA currently possess. Consultations that would be carried out within the framework of multilateral nuclear forces would essentially be the same as those already long conducted within NATO.

I would also like to emphasize, Rusk continued, that multilateral nuclear forces will never become a tail that wags the dog. Perhaps I'm not being entirely diplomatic using this expression, but it's a fact.

N.S. Khrushchev repeatedly said, Rusk continued, that the exchange of views with Western powers is complicated by the fact that elections are always happening in some country and governments change. Just now since October in four countries - USA, England, Italy and Germany - governments have changed¹⁶⁸. However, it seems to me that all these changes do not mean a departure from Kennedy's policy, but occur within the framework of this policy. In December of this year, I will consult with the governments of our European allies, and in the meantime, I think, we should continue considering such issues, perhaps quite minor ones, like cultural exchanges, consular agreement, direct air communication agreement and trade. True, there are some difficulties in this last issue. The Senate is supposed to vote on this issue today, but I haven't yet received information about the voting results.

As for broader issues, we will consult on them with our allies.

Replied to Rusk that would like to add a few words to what was said about multilateral nuclear forces. It turns out strange: we, the communists, are not against American nuclear weapons, although you have many of them, but we constantly talk about Germany. Well, it would seem your American capitalists are better than the German ones. Apparently, this is not happening by chance. We have no mutual territorial claims with the USA and both our

132