Signal copy

must receive this weapon into its hands, as it will feel humiliated if its main allies have this weapon while it does not. But such an argument is untenable.

In the past, I have repeatedly had to exchange opinions with US representatives about the dangerous role that Germany could play in international affairs. In 1936, for example, our ambassador to the USA Troyanovsky introduced me to then-Secretary of State Hull. Hull told me then that Japan and Germany posed a danger to peace and that our two states needed to unite their efforts in the face of this danger. As it turned out later, Hull's predictions proved correct, and during World War II our countries did indeed fight together against Hitler's Germany and Japan.

At one time, President Eisenhower spoke to me in Dulles' presence about his understanding of the danger associated with an armed Germany. And I have already discussed this issue with you, and although not directly, you spoke about how it was not by chance that Germany started two world wars.

West Germany is a rich country with large gold reserves. Why does it need nuclear weapons? Why does it demand them? There is only one answer: to restore former borders, either through blackmail or direct armed aggression. Is it really necessary for the FRG to have nuclear weapons? But the militaristic forces of West Germany will not stop at multilateral forces: they will go further and demand even more rights for themselves. Why should the USA agree to this? By the way, the USA itself indirectly violates the Paris Agreements by allowing West Germans to put their finger on the nuclear weapon button.

We do not understand why this is being done. Apparently, you consider West Germany so strong that you are forced to yield to it, so to speak, to compromise. But this is only a rotten compromise. All this creates serious disagreements between our two countries.

The US government is in every way accelerating the decision on creating multilateral nuclear forces despite the fact that many of your allies do not want to have nuclear weapons at all. It seems to us that this is a political mistake on your part, which you will regret. It may turn out that it will be too late to regret.

As for us, we are not afraid of the Germans, as we have so many weapons that we can destroy West Germany on the very first day if war breaks out. We fear that West Germany might provoke a war in which you will become involved, perhaps even against your wishes.

You may not give nuclear weapons directly to West Germans, but in any case you are putting their hand on nuclear weapons. This is, of course, your business. We are against this, and believe it can only harm the cause of peace.

At the same time we are not at all against Germany, I continued, we are for a peaceful democratic Germany. But we are, of course, against militaristic Germany, and your policy leads

130