Signal Copy

The character and spirit of our own society must justify and support our efforts abroad. We must demonstrate this in dedicating our own lives, serving without pay in the "peace corps" abroad and in the planned national service corps here, within the country - and many of you, completing your studies today, will have the exclusive opportunity to do this.

However, wherever we may be, we must all live daily according to some faith that peace and freedom must go hand in hand. In too many of our cities today, peace is unreliable because freedom is incomplete.

The duty of executive authorities at all levels - local, in states and at the national level - is to ensure and protect this freedom for all citizens by all means at their disposal. The duty of legislative bodies at all levels - everywhere where this power is currently insufficient, is to make it sufficient.

And finally, it is the duty of all citizens to respect the rights of all others and to respect the law of the country.

It cannot be said that all this has no relation to world peace. As the Bible tells us, when man's ways please the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. And isn't peace ultimately primarily a question of human rights - the right to live one's own life without fear of destruction, the right to breathe the air that nature gives us, the right of future generations to healthy existence?

While achieving protection of our national interests, let us also protect human interests. And arms control, undoubtedly, responds to both these interests. No agreement - no matter how beneficial it might be for all, no matter how carefully it might be formulated, can provide absolute guarantee against the danger of deception and evasion. However, it can - if it is sufficiently effective in its implementation, and if it has sufficient verification methods - provide much greater security and much less risk than an uncontrolled, unregulated arms race, the consequences of which are impossible to predict.

The United States, as the world knows, will never start a war. We do not want war. We are not now waiting for war. The current generation of Americans has had enough - more than enough - of war, hatred, and oppression. We will be ready for war if others want it. We will be vigilant to try to stop it. But besides that, we must play our role to create a peaceful world where the weak are safe and the strong are just. We are powerless before this task and do not think that there is hope for success. With a sense of confidence, without feeling fear, we strive not for a strategy of destruction, but for a strategy of peace. (newspaper "Pravda", 1963. July 13. p. 164).

[Footnotes]
3 N.S. Khrushchev's answers to questions were published on June 15, 1963 (newspaper "Pravda", 1963, June 15, No. 166; newspaper "Izvestia", 1963, June 13, No. 142).

4 The question of German unification had been discussed since 1949, that is, since the creation of two German states - FRG and GDR. The leadership of the USSR and USA proposed various projects that did not satisfy both sides. This was complicated by the fact that K. Adenauer's government in West Germany refused to recognize independent East Germany. Thus, after establishing diplomatic relations with the USSR in 1956, the "Hallstein Doctrine" was adopted, according to which the FRG government threatened to break relations with any state that would recognize the GDR. The East German leadership until 1962 adhered to the policy of uniting both states. Only in March 1962, after the GDR government adopted the "National Document", it was declared that unification with the FRG was possible only after socialism's victory there, which effectively meant abandoning such unification plans. Moreover, since the end of 1958, the Soviet leadership came forward with the initiative to transform West Berlin into an independent state entity - a demilitarized free city. However, this demand was not supported by Western powers. Along with this, since mid-1962, new approaches began to be discussed in the FRG aimed at rejecting harsh confrontation with the East. Thus, in June 1963, Social Democrat E. Bahr formulated a new doctrine - "Change through rapprochement", the essence of which was that it was necessary to change policy towards rapprochement with the GDR.

5 NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) - a military-political organization created on the basis of a treaty signed on April 4, 1949, in Washington. Initially, NATO members were the USA, Great Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, and Portugal. In 1952, Greece and Turkey joined NATO, and in 1955 - FRG. The Warsaw Treaty (Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance) on creating collective defense was signed in Warsaw on May 14, 1955, between the USSR and European socialist countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, GDR, Hungary, Poland, and Romania). The treaty formalized the creation of a military-political alliance (Organization

237