Signal Copy

After exchanging greetings, Rusk tells N.S. Khrushchev that he and his accompanying persons had just returned from Leningrad yesterday. He very much liked this historic city of great traditions.

N.S. Khrushchev notes that Leningrad is a city of our revolutionary glory, a symbol of the Soviet people's resilience. Leningrad is a city of remarkable cultural values. After the war, continues N.S. Khrushchev, we managed to rebuild Leningrad and make it even more beautiful than it was before the war. Recently, we have achieved great success in restoring and expanding cities. For example, currently each year in Moscow so many houses are being built that, as calculated, it amounts to 1/3 of Moscow's pre-revolutionary housing stock. In other words, every three years we build a new Moscow.

Rusk says that at the beginning of the conversation, he would first like to express feelings of deep satisfaction regarding his visit to the USSR. This was his first trip to the Soviet Union, and he is happy that it coincided with such an event as the signing of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Tests. We, continues Rusk, extremely highly value the friendliness and hospitality shown to us. We are grateful to you, Mr. Chairman, to your colleagues and to all Soviet people for the remarkable reception. President Kennedy has sincerely expressed hope that the signing of this Treaty will be the first step toward easing tensions and a solid foundation for improving relations between the USA and USSR. It is known that Soviet-American relations are of primary importance not only for the Soviet and American peoples but for the whole world.

Rusk notes that he is ready to discuss with N.S. Khrushchev all issues of interest to both sides.

N.S. Khrushchev says that in the Soviet Union they also feel satisfaction regarding the signing of the Treaty and expresses hope that the American guests have felt that the people and government of the USSR approve this agreement. We highly value the efforts undertaken by the US President and Secretary of State to achieve agreement on this issue. This Treaty is such a matter from which neither side loses anything; on the contrary, our countries benefit from this, as do other countries of the East and West, and indeed the whole world.

We would consider it very useful, continues N.S. Khrushchev, for our peoples and for the whole world not to stop at what has been achieved, but to strive to develop agreements on other issues. This could be a precedent for the US President to come to Moscow to sign a new agreement. It would be a good combination – the signing of the agreement and his return visit, which he should pay us, whereby the signing of the agreement would create a favorable background for displaying our people's traditional hospitality. In principle, there is a possibility to agree on such issues from which no one loses and everyone only gains.

35