[Signal copy]

became one of the reasons for friction. While the GDR and countries like Hungary and Finland paid us all reparations, I repeat, West Germany, the richest country in Europe and directly responsible for the war, did not pay reparations, relying on veto.

We agree with your point of view and accordingly stipulate in the peace treaty that the path for reunification of the two German states remains open, and that the parties who signed the peace treaty will facilitate the resolution of the question of German reunification, whereby this should be subject to agreement between the German states. We, of course, have different positions. We sympathize with the political system in the GDR, and you - with the system in the FRG. This is natural. But you cannot change the system in the GDR just as we cannot change the system in West Germany. Such matters are decided by the people of these two states themselves.

N.S. Khrushchev jokingly remarks that American "corns" are on GDR territory and they should be removed from there, and we will help with this. This needs to be done now, without waiting until they start stepping on them. By the way, says N.S. Khrushchev, the expression about corns belongs to Lippmann, that intelligent person of yours.

Rusk says that Western countries withdrew in their time from Saxony and Thuringia, from territories of several hundred square kilometers.

N.S. Khrushchev says that we are not planning to seize West Berlin. We simply don't need it. Let it be a third German state with special status, whose sovereignty should be respected by all countries.

Rusk notes that American "corns" create temptation due to special geographical conditions, but this temptation should be restrained, as it would be quite difficult for the United States to just apologize if someone steps on these corns.

He further says that he attaches certain importance to N.S. Khrushchev's remark that on the question of German reunification, the people should be consulted. In his opinion, the people of East and West Germany should be consulted separately. Rusk emphasizes that he is not raising this question now, he is asking in general whether it would be possible to learn the opinion of people from different parts of Germany separately. It is important for him to clarify the Soviet Union's view on how the opinion of East German population could be learned, and he asks this not for short-term tactical considerations, but from the perspective of long-term stability on the continent. The very same continent, Rusk jokingly remarks, which, according to de Gaulle's definition, extends from the Atlantic to the Urals.

N.S. Khrushchev says that, in his opinion, this question cannot be a subject of discussion now. In both parts of Germany, there are governments and parliaments, elections have been held multiple times and, in particular, elections to the People's Chamber of the GDR will soon be held on the most democratic basis. Is there any need in this connection to somehow further poll the people?

41