[Signal copy]

devoted to the preparation and conclusion of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in Three Environments (Moscow Treaty of 1963), contacts of USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko with US leadership during his stay at the XVIII UN General Assembly, as well as discussion by Soviet leadership of main issues regarding further development of relations with the USA and directly with J.F. Kennedy. This section includes 11 documents covering the period from June 13 to October 25, 1963.

The second, main section, includes documents covering several closely interconnected topics - the Soviet Union leadership's reaction to J.F. Kennedy's assassination in Dallas, the trip to the USA to participate in the funeral of N.S. Khrushchev's trusted associate - member of the CPSU Central Committee Presidium, First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers A.I. Mikoyan, his establishment of first contacts with new president L. Johnson and, finally, USSR's assistance to the American side in conducting the investigation. This section includes 66 documents covering the period from November 22, 1963 to September 28, 1964.

The third section is devoted to matters related to the history of establishing the Presidential Library and Museum of J.F. Kennedy in Boston and providing documentary materials for its collection. This section includes 7 documents covering the period from February 26 to August 28, 1964.

Finally, the fourth (supplementary) section includes materials about granting L.H. Oswald the right of residence in the USSR and about his stay in Minsk. This section includes 11 documents covering the period from October 13, 1959 to May 28, 1962.

The basis for preparing this collection were documents stored in Fund No. 3 "Politburo of the CC RCP(b)-AUCP(b)-CPSU" (thematic files "On the assassination of President J.F. Kennedy" and "USA. Political-economic relations" (inventory No. 66 "International issues", subgroup "USA"), files of inventory No. 16 "Protocols of CPSU CC Presidium meetings (original resolutions and materials. XXII convocation)", as well as separate documents from N.S. Khrushchev's personal fund (Fund No. 52, inventory No. 1).

The collection also includes a number of documents from other federal and departmental archives, supplementing the complex of sources found in RGANI.

Materials concerning A.I. Mikoyan's trip are stored in the State Archive of the Russian Federation and in the Archive of Foreign Policy of the Russian Federation. Documents concerning L.H. Oswald came from the archive of the Foreign Intelligence Service of the Russian Federation and the Central Archive of the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation. The Central Archive of the Committee for State Security of the Republic of Belarus provided materials about Oswald's stay in Minsk.

Along with documents, the collection publishes little-known photo and film documents from the collections of the Russian State Archive of Film and Photo Documents and the Russian State Archive of Socio-Political History.

17