Signal Copy

Rask asks permission to say a few words to conclude the discussion of this issue and says that, as he understood, N.S. Khrushchev believes that the Geneva Agreements have been fulfilled. The USA is concerned that if the great powers who signed the Geneva Agreements remain silent, it will create an impression that they are not interested in the situation in Laos, and then the parties in Laos might think they have the support of certain great powers. Of course, it is difficult to understand the Laotians who today might fight among themselves, and tomorrow participate in a joint water festival. It seems to him that the Soviet Union, England, France, USA and other countries seriously want to achieve agreement and harmony in Laos. He would like to appeal once again to the Soviet government to publicly express its support for the Geneva Agreements. It should also be taken into account that the agreement on Laos was one of the most productive agreements between the USA and USSR in recent times.

At the end of the conversation, when N.S. Khrushchev noted that he would apparently go bear hunting in Romania in autumn, Rask said that the State Department gave strict instructions to American polar hunters to keep further away from "Soviet white bears" in the Arctic, referring to the Soviet note of protest regarding the violation of the Soviet border in the Alaska region by "American hunters".

The conversation lasted 2 hours 30 minutes.

Present were: from the American side - Ambassador for Special Missions L. Thompson, US Ambassador to USSR F. Kohler, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State R. Davis, State Department officer A. Akalovsky; from the Soviet side - comrades A.A. Gromyko, A.F. Dobrynin.

Recorded by: Yu. Vinogradov.

RGANI. F. 52. Op. 1. D. 583. L. 160-177. Copy. Typewritten text.

№5
Note from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko to CC CPSU
regarding the draft message from N.S. Khrushchev to US President J.F. Kennedy

№ 2442/GS                                                                                                   August 16, 1963

Secret. Copy №2

CC CPSU

The USSR MFA presents a draft letter from comrade N.S. Khrushchev to US President J. Kennedy, which would be expedient to transmit through our ambassador comrade A.F. Dobrynin, who is returning to Washington in the coming days.

46