Signal Copy

with a request to provide to its disposal for the Commission investigating the assassination of President Kennedy any possible information regarding the stay of American citizen Lee Harvey Oswald in the Soviet Union during the period from 1959 to 1962 (telegrams from Washington No. 485 and 488224). As known, in November 1963, our embassy in Washington provided to the US State Department photocopies of Oswald's and his wife's correspondence with the consular department of the embassy during 1962-63. This gesture then had a certain positive effect on American public opinion and to some extent undermined the slanderous version of the reactionary US press, which tried to portray Oswald as almost a "communist agent."

Since it would be difficult for us to refuse to satisfy the US government's request to provide it with any additional information about Oswald's stay in the Soviet Union, the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs and KGB under the Council of Ministers of the USSR consider it possible to provide the State Department with photocopies of some documents related to this matter.

It is intended to provide photocopies of the following documents:
1. Documents about medical examination and treatment of Oswald and his wife. There is no data about any mental illness of Oswald and his wife in these materials.
2. Documents about Oswald's residence and employment in the Soviet Union and about processing his departure with his wife to the USA. These documents show that Oswald remained to live in the USSR voluntarily and there were no obstacles created for his return to the USA.

Draft resolution is attached225.

Please review.

V. Kuznetsov                                                V. Semichastniy

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 448. L. 113 - 114. Electrographic copy. Typewritten text.

No. 71
Resolution of the Presidium of the CPSU Central Committee "On providing to the US State Department photocopies of documents related to the stay of American citizen Oswald in the Soviet Union"

No. P140/XLI                                                                                           April 23, 1964226

1. Accept the proposal of the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs and KGB under the Council of Ministers of the USSR about providing to the US State Department photocopies of some documents related to the stay

184