Signal Copy

N.S. Khrushchev says that the philosophy of the USA and Soviet Union is different. The US government declares that its ultimate goal is to ensure the welfare of the people. However, in the USA, capitalist ownership and such social conditions prevail, where everyone is for themselves and all against one. And we are achieving rapid development of our economy based on socialist ownership under such social conditions where one is for all and all for one.

Nevertheless, we are ready to take the good that exists in the USA. Lenin highly valued American entrepreneurship and business acumen, and Stalin also spoke positively about it.

When US Minister Udall visited here, he noted that Americans have something to learn from Soviet hydroelectric power plant builders. After all, in our time, we learned this from American specialists. So both teachers and students proved worthy of each other.

Now one of the main tasks is to raise agriculture in the Soviet Union. We intend to do much in the next 7 years, and the final solution will be achieved by 1980. N.S. Khrushchev says that his friend - capitalist Garst says that for agricultural development, the main thing is artificial fertilizers, and this requires money. Now we have this money. We are investing billions of rubles in the chemical industry, in the construction of plants producing artificial fertilizers, polyethylene, terylene, etc. Some thought that if the arms race was imposed on the Soviet Union, it would not catch up with the USA economically. To think so is unwise; this race has not stopped the development of the USSR's national economy.

At the end of the conversation, N.S. Khrushchev invites Rusk to visit him in the Caucasus.
D. Rusk thanks for the invitation.

From the Soviet side, the following comrades attended the conversation: A.A. Gromyko, V.V. Kuznetsov, M.N. Smirnovsky, A.F. Dobrynin and L.M. Zamyatin.

Recorded by O. Alennikov.

RGANI. F. 52. Op. 1. D. 583. L. 151-157. Copy (3 copies). Typewritten text.

№4
Record of Conversation between N.S. Khrushchev and US Secretary of State D. Rusk

Gagra                                                                                August 9, 1963

RECORD OF CONVERSATION
between com. N.S. KHRUSHCHEV and US Secretary of State D. RUSK

a On the first page at the top, marked in simple pencil "to Shuyskomy."
b Document note: "Record of conversation with com. Khrushchev N.S. was not reviewed."

34