Signal copy

Documents are published in full, without omissions or text abridgement. The only exception is document No. 72 "From the conversation record of N.S. Khrushchev with New York Times observer D. Pierson and his wife L. Pierson regarding the investigation of J.F. Kennedy's assassination," in which a portion of text unrelated to the collection's theme is omitted.

When reproducing document texts, their stylistic and linguistic features are preserved. Obvious typos and grammatical errors that do not affect meaning and do not distort document content are not noted by compilers; omitted words are restored in square brackets. Author's underlines in the text are preserved, while underlines made during document review at the CPSU Central Committee or USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not reproduced.

All foreign surnames and names are printed as they appear in documents, their variations are not noted and not updated to modern spelling. Modern spelling of foreign surnames and names is provided in the name index, where variations found in documents are indicated in brackets.

The legend includes document storage location information. In some cases, information about originals and copies discovered in different archives is provided. The legend also mandatorily indicates whether the document is original or copy; method of text reproduction (typed text, manuscript, etc.), as well as presence of signature-autographs. For example: "Typed text. Signature-autograph, blue ballpoint pen."

The collection's reference apparatus consists of textual notes, commentary (content notes), name and geographical indexes, list of abbreviations and list of published documents.

All commentary necessary for fuller and more precise understanding of document content, whether explanatory, clarifying or reference in nature, is marked with Arabic numerals and provided after the main body of documents.

For commentary, in addition to publicly available sources, various reference and memoir literature, and periodicals, documentary materials from former archives of the Politburo, Secretariat and Apparatus of the CPSU Central Committee stored in the Russian State Archive of Contemporary History were widely used, as well as their reference apparatus.

The compilers consider it their duty to express gratitude to GARF employees L.A. Rogova and F.I. Melentyev, RGAKFD - N.I. Pestov and L.A. Denisova, RGASPI - P.P. Skorospelov and N.I. Leontyeva, RGANI - A.E. Sokolova, T.A. Dzhalilov, A.A. Kazinov and L.V. Klimova, as well as former director of the Historical-Documentary Department of Russian MFA N.M. Barinova and our colleagues from archives of Russian Foreign Intelligence Service, Russian FSB and KGB of Republic of Belarus, who provided invaluable assistance in preparing the collection.

A.S. Stepanov, N.Yu. Pivovarov
21