Special copy

any of his statements could be used against him in court. He was also informed of his right to an attorney. The Dallas Bar Association offered Oswald their services, which he declined at the time.

The Commission states that the "unrestricted access" granted to press and radio representatives to that part of the prison through which Oswald had to pass to reach other parts of the building created chaotic conditions that were not conducive to proper interrogation and protection of the arrestee's rights.

Furthermore, according to the Commission, numerous and sometimes erroneous statements made by local police authorities to journalists "would have created serious obstacles to an impartial judicial examination of the Oswald case."

The Commission recommends making changes to Presidential protection measures based on the facts discovered during this investigation.

The report states that the complexity of the President's office has increased so much in recent years that the Secret Service was unable to develop and provide sufficient personnel and necessary equipment "to fulfill its important mission."

The Commission believes there is a lack of communication and coordination of information between the Secret Service and other federal agencies related to Presidential security.

Although some measures prepared by the Secret Service, such as at "Love" airport and in the Dallas Trade Mart building, were "well executed," nevertheless, the Commission believes that the methods for detecting an assassin in the building along the President's motorcade route were inadequate.

Within these "limitations," the Commission says, agents directly responsible for the President's security responded immediately when the assassin's shots were fired.

Further, the Commission expressed "satisfaction" that after several months of work, the Secret Service prepared a document containing plans for improving the technical aspects of the Secret Service and expanding its capabilities.

The Commission proposes that the Secretary of the Treasury appoint a special assistant with duties to oversee the Secret Service's work. It also proposes that a committee consisting of government members, including the Secretary of the Treasury and Attorney General, or National Security, be assigned responsibility for supervising the protective activities of the Secret Service and other federal agencies assisting in Presidential protection.

In a special addendum intended to put an end to the proposals and rumors generated by the assassination, the Commission notes that "myths" have traditionally surrounded all tragic assassinations in history.

202