[Signal copy]

Of course, it is impossible to make firm conclusions about the stability of Kennedy's course towards known détente of international tensions and its duration now, given the very complex situation in the USA and the influence of increasingly active extremely reactionary forces; moreover, the danger of international complications related to a number of unresolved problems and the constant threat of US interference in internal affairs of other countries remains, especially regarding American policy towards Cuba.

Under current conditions, we obviously should not act hastily; it is advisable to carefully consider the next steps in order to maintain pressure and achieve more advantageous positions for ourselves on key issues, including by using the specifics of the electoral situation in the USA. This primarily means ensuring non-invasion of Cuba and normalization of the situation in West Berlin within the framework of German peaceful settlement. Simultaneously - continue efforts on issues where possibility of agreement emerged during A.A. Gromyko's conversations with American leaders.

A.DOBRYNIN

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 328. L. 13 - 30. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 10
Note from First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of USSR V.V. Kuznetsov
regarding draft information for First Secretaries of CC of Communist and Workers' Parties
about A.A. Gromyko's meetings with J.F. Kennedy, D. Rusk and A. Douglas-Home

No. 3092/GS                                                                                                   October 23, 1963

Secret

TO CC CPSU

USSR MFA considers it expedient, as was done before, to confidentially inform in oral form the First Secretaries of CC of Communist and Workers' Parties of GDR, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Mongolia and Cuba about the main content of conversations between USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs with Kennedy, Rusk and Home, which took place in New York and Washington in September-October of this year.

Draft resolution is attached.
Please review.

V. Kuznetsov

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 354. L.144. Electrographic copy. Typewritten text.

61