Signal copy

and managed to avoid trial). In the room where Oswald's murder took place, there were several dozen police officers; nevertheless, no one made any attempt to prevent Ruby from shooting Oswald point-blank.

On November 27, the Washington Daily News reported from Dallas that Dallas Police Chief Curry "does not rule out the possibility that one or more of his police officers could have helped Ruby in his plan" (i.e., in killing Oswald).

3. Ruby claims that he killed Oswald as a result of an unexpected emotional impulse due to his distress over President Kennedy's assassination. Ruby's lawyers intend to build his defense on the claim that at the time of Oswald's murder, Ruby was allegedly in a state of "temporary insanity." A version is also widely publicized according to which Ruby committed Oswald's murder out of supposedly high patriotic motives. However, his entire criminal biography and testimonies of some people who knew him closely refute this version. Thus, one of his friends, a certain Herbert Kelly, stated that Ruby "was not a patriot," but was known as a "police informant" (which is confirmed by other information).

It is characteristic that District Attorney Wade stated on November 27 that he was not satisfied with the motives put forward by Ruby to justify Oswald's murder. "This," Wade said, "may be a desire for publicity, or something much deeper may be hidden behind it."

The claim that Ruby could have acted in a state of affect also raises doubts. It is known, for example, that Ruby was in the police department building on Saturday and, in particular, was present there when Oswald was shown to journalists.

4. Reports appeared in the press that Oswald had previously met and was acquainted with Ruby, although Ruby's lawyer denies this. The press reported, in particular, that Ruby and Oswald were neighbors and that Oswald was seen in Ruby's nightclub a week before the Kennedy assassination. In connection with this, a question arises whether Oswald and Ruby were accomplices and whether Oswald's murder was an attempt to cover up tracks.

All these questionable points received very wide coverage in both American and foreign press and, apparently, caused serious concern in the U.S. government. This apparently explains the fact that on the evening of November 25, President Johnson ordered the Department of Justice to conduct a broad and thorough investigation of the circumstances of President Kennedy's assassination and subsequent events.

About 50 FBI agents are currently conducting an investigation in Dallas, assisted by representatives of other agencies (Secret Service, State Department, Department of Defense, CIA). A detailed report is expected to be

146