Signal Copy

The family of President Kennedy and his close colleagues are working to make the library construction possible. Some governments and private citizens from other countries have shown interest in participating in this project. I hope that you will inform me about any interest in your country, official or unofficial, which may be expressed in this direction.

Sincerely yours,
Eugene Black

To His Excellency
Mr. Anatoly F. Dobrynin
Ambassador of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
1125 16th Street N.W.
Washington 25, D.C.

Translated by V. Kuleshov

[Attachment]

THE JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY LIBRARY

The John Fitzgerald Kennedy Library will be constructed in Boston, Massachusetts, on a site along the Charles River, donated free of charge by Harvard University. President Kennedy personally selected this site because he wanted the Library to be near the places where he spent his youth, and because he wanted the Library to be part of the university campus. Such location of the Library will not only allow close ties with Harvard University but will also provide easy access to it from other colleges and universities in the Boston area.

The Library will be a memorial to President Kennedy. It will be an attempt to express through architecture the spirit and style of the 35th president. But it will be something significantly more than a memorial, as a true memorial should also express President Kennedy's living concern for the unfinished business of his country and the whole world. The Library will therefore include, besides a strict and beautiful memorial hall, several working components: a museum, archive, and Institute. The architect will face the task of uniting these elements into a single harmonious project encompassing the various functions of the Library and glorifying the memory of President Kennedy.

The Museum will display items telling about President Kennedy and his time - photographs, panoramas, scientific objects and other various exhibits, narrating about the problems, achievements, and atmosphere of Kennedy's time. The Museum will not be a static display of items in glass cases. Modern

208