Signal Copy

Kennedy was dedicated to the cause of peace and peaceful settlement of international problems and improving relations between all countries, including the Soviet Union and the United States. I intend to continue striving towards these goals.

Lyndon B. Johnson

Pravda Newspaper. 1963. November 26. No. 330. Typographic text.

No. 32
Coded telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs
regarding conversation with US President's Special Representative on USSR matters L. Thompson
about Soviet-American relations

Spec. No. 1990 - 1995                                                                                November 24, 1963
Washington                                                                                                TOP SECRET
                                                                                                                Copy No. 12
                                                                                                                URGENT

Today Thompson visited me at my apartment. He is clearly distressed by all recent events and is greatly concerned about their negative impact on Soviet-American relations.

1. Thompson said that N.S. Khrushchev's visit to the American embassy in connection with Kennedy's death was a very far-sighted step, which he personally fully welcomes and which will immediately help significantly reduce the anti-Soviet tone of subsequent events. However, the development of events still greatly worries Thompson. In this regard, as his personal advice, he wanted to express some considerations as a long-time supporter of improving relations between our countries.

Firstly, in his opinion, it would be better if the Soviet press would for now report more on the factual side of recent events, without particularly emphasizing the involvement of far-right circles. All such statements by the Soviet press immediately begin to be debated here and are contrasted with Oswald's "communist connections". Additional passions flare up, and in US conditions, propaganda always takes the side of those who are against the "reds".

a On the first page at the top is stamped "to. Khrushchev N.S."
b Here and further underlined in the original document.

96