[Signal copy]

which such acts do not apply to. According to Rask, chemical plants do not require any legislative acts from Congress. If the executive authorities can resolve this issue, he will definitely address it upon returning to Washington.

Rask further notes that N.S. Khrushchev spoke about how trade leads to peace. He, Rask, also believes that those who trade want peace, while those who don't trade don't want peace. He is convinced that as the situation improves, trade will develop. Socialist countries trade quite successfully with Western Europe and Japan. Their turnover amounts to 5.5 billion dollars. This is a huge figure. The USA, however, has insignificant trade with socialist countries. The point is that if the situation worsens and pressure is applied in certain issues, for example, regarding Berlin, many people will question whether trade really leads to peace. Thus, it can apparently be considered that trade itself does not remove tension, but leads to its softening. He agrees that trade is one of the indicators of good relations, and the United States is glad that trade channels are opening between Western Europe and socialist states. He would be very pleased if such channels opened in trade with the USA.

N.S. Khrushchev says that trade is not about lending. No one trades with another to make a loan, but trades when it's profitable. Trade restrictions are, of course, determined by political considerations, not considerations of profit. Countries that have laws restricting trade are not guided by good interests. We advocate free trade between all countries. It would be good, continues N.S. Khrushchev, if you could prove that you also strive for this and convince Ambassador Kohler, who maintains cold war positions on Soviet-American trade issues and opposes the development of our trade, to act in a different direction.

By the way, our trade organizations are not particularly eager to place orders for chemical equipment in the USA. They explain this by saying that American equipment is the most expensive in the world, and we will place orders in other Western countries if we can agree on a suitable price. We are ready to place very large orders in the USA if American industrialists want this, but subject to firm credit and if prices correspond to world prices. We are not extending our hand, we want to trade on equal terms.

Rask notes that, as he heard from American industrialists, Soviet trade circles enjoy a very good reputation.

He further says that he will definitely consider the issue of chemical plants upon returning to Washington and, possibly, US legislative bodies will return to those measures that are inhibiting in relation to providing credits. As for Ambassador Kohler, he acts according to instructions. He, Rask, knows that Kohler

43