Signal Copy

Kohler thanks N.S. Khrushchev for expressing condolences and adds that A.I. Mikoyan will be issued a visa for travel to the USA without delay.

Kohler further says that he is deeply touched by N.S. Khrushchev's visit to the embassy and is confident that these feelings will be shared by President Johnson and the family members of the late president.

N.S. Khrushchev expresses deep regret regarding Kennedy's death. With him, he continues, I developed good personal relations. We respected each other and understood that, although we are, of course, people of different poles, we must live on one planet.

Kohler responds that he personally knows well that N.S. Khrushchev and the late president well understood the enormous responsibility that rested on both of them for the world's fate. From the very moment, he continues, when he took office as president, I worked closely with him and was glad that soon after he became president, Kennedy met with N.S. Khrushchev and frequently exchanged messages with him.

Throughout this entire period, the ambassador continues, Lyndon Johnson was always beside the president and worked in close contact with him. Therefore, we can note with satisfaction that there will not be any interruption in the relations between our countries.

N.S. Khrushchev responds that the Soviet government, for its part, would like to continue developing and maintaining contacts between the governments of our two countries, cooperating on those issues that contribute to the easing of international tension.

Further, N.S. Khrushchev asks Kohler to convey his condolences to John Kennedy's father and mother, adding that he, N.S. Khrushchev, as well as his daughter R.N. Khrushcheva and A.I. Adzhubei have already sent their condolences to Mrs. Kennedy.

Kohler says that all his efforts as US Ambassador to the USSR will continue to be directed at strengthening relations between the USSR and USA and for the benefit of peace, which, in his opinion, corresponds to the common interests of both countries.

N.S. Khrushchev notes that in this field Kohler will always find full support from the Soviet government.

Kohler then says that when he received the first news of the president's death the day before, he simply could not believe it. However, he says, there can always appear some madman. They have appeared before in American history.

N.S. Khrushchev asks whether the killer has been detained yet.

Kohler responds that a former US Marine Corps serviceman, who was discharged from the US army with dishonor, has been detained on suspicion of Kennedy's murder, but there is no precise information regarding his guilt yet. In any case, he continues, I think that the person who committed such a crime is undoubtedly insane.

88