Signal copy

of troops stationed in West Berlin and establishing a final deadline for their stay. Issues related to access to West Berlin and its status, Kennedy said, are also important, but provided the troop issue is resolved, these issues could certainly be resolved.

In one of the conversations, Rusk, touching upon the West Berlin issue, expressed the idea that some "temporary measures" should be agreed upon. However, when Comrade Gromyko subsequently asked to clarify what was meant by "temporary measures," Kennedy avoided explaining this wording, and Rusk responded in general terms that all measures implemented in Germany in the post-war period should be considered "temporary" until the final German settlement.

Disarmament and arms race limitation issues. During the exchange of views on these issues, our side pursued the goal of determining whether there was anything new in the Western powers' position on general and complete disarmament, as well as identifying the possibility of reaching agreements on specific measures that would contribute to strengthening peace and further easing international tensions that emerged as a result of concluding the nuclear test ban treaty.

The exchange of views with U.S. and British representatives showed that the Americans and British are still not ready to take radical steps in disarmament and are not inclined to actually negotiate on general and complete disarmament. President Kennedy in the conversation on October 10 even stated that he generally does not believe in the possibility of agreement on this issue in the near future, but, nevertheless, believes that disarmament negotiations are useful and should continue. Rusk and Home, while showing some interest in our new proposals in the field of general and complete disarmament (maintaining a limited number of missiles with nuclear warheads at the disposal of the USSR and USA until the completion of the entire disarmament process), also quite clearly indicated that the USA and Britain do not intend to seek convergence of positions now. Regarding our proposal to convene a meeting of the 18-nation Committee participants at the highest level, U.S. and British representatives responded with restraint, not rejecting it, but not expressing desire to implement this proposal.

At the same time, the conversations reveal that U.S. and British leaders are increasingly aware of what dangerous consequences the continuing arms race may lead to. It was felt that they are concerned – and not least due to financial considerations – with finding ways to limit the further arms race to some extent acceptable to the West.

In this regard, Kennedy's and Rusk's statements draw attention to the fact that the USA at this stage considers it possible to seek solutions to individual disarmament issues not through formal agreements that would require complex procedures

64