Signal Copy

indeed there was such a rifle. One of the witnesses saw Oswald carrying a long package on the morning of the president's assassination, which approximately matched the dimensions of the rifle.

On the rifle and on one of the boxes found on the sixth floor of the book depository, there appeared to be Oswald's palm prints. Palm prints were also found on the wrapping paper in which, allegedly, Oswald brought the rifle into the building. On Oswald's hands, forensic examination revealed traces of gunpowder residue, indicating that he had recently used a firearm.

Witness testimony indicates that Oswald was in the book depository building at the time of the assassination attempt on the president and that he was seen on the sixth floor earlier that morning. Immediately after the assassination attempt, a police officer who searched the book depository saw Oswald inside the building but did not detain him, as the building manager confirmed that Oswald was a local employee.

Since Oswald then turned out to be the only employee who left the book depository immediately after the president's assassination, this raised suspicions and they began searching for him. The aforementioned police officer Tippit apparently tried to detain Oswald based on information transmitted by police radio.

After Oswald's death, one of the main pieces of evidence against him became an alleged map of Dallas found at Oswald's home, which marked the route of the presidential motorcade and showed a possible line of fire.

II.

However, the presence of several unclear and contradictory points in the data published to date allows American and foreign press to express serious doubts about the nature of the investigation conducted by Dallas police into the circumstances of the case.

These doubts can be summarized as follows:

1. From the very beginning, the investigation effectively focused only on Oswald, and the police claimed that he "had no accomplices" (for example, Police Captain Fritz's statement on November 23), although the police essentially had no grounds to exclude the participation of other persons. Moreover, there were reports in the press that the FBI had an amateur film shot by one of the Kennedy assassination witnesses, which suggests that the president was shot not by one person, but by two. However, a Justice Department representative stated on November 27: "We have no evidence that anyone else was in the room besides Oswald."

2. As stated by local police, FBI agents interrogated Oswald two weeks before Kennedy's assassination, however, they did not inform Dallas police about this, and Oswald was not included in the lists of "dangerous persons" compiled by the Secret Service as

144