"When there is an element of mystery in such dramatic events, erroneous conclusions often arise as a result of sensational assumptions," states the commission's report.

The Commission says that many questions arose regarding the facts, due to "genuine confusion or disinformation - surrounding some of the early reports about rapidly developing events."

Investigation of a "large number" of rumors and assumptions was conducted in almost all parts of the United States and in most continents of the world, according to the report. A special addition, the report continues, was intended to bring clarity to the most widely circulated public perceptions about the facts.

Here are some examples of assumptions and the commission's conclusions:

Assumption: The shots that killed the President were fired from a railroad bridge over a three-level highway viaduct.

Commission conclusion: The shots that struck the President's neck and head and wounded Governor Connally were fired from behind and above. There is no evidence that any of the shots were fired at the President from any other location than the Texas School Book Depository building.

Assumption: A rifle cartridge was found on the bridge.

Commission conclusion: No cartridge of any kind was found on the bridge and no witness came forward who claimed to have found one.

Assumption: More than three shots, possibly up to five or six, were fired at the President and Governor Connally.

Commission conclusion: "The weight of evidence indicates that three shots were fired, two of which struck President Kennedy. There is persuasive evidence from experts that one of these two bullets also struck Governor Connally. Some witnesses claimed they heard more than three shots but, as fully described in Chapter 3 of the report, the vast majority heard three shots."

Assumption: The throat wound received by the President was the result of a shot fired from the front according to doctors at Parkland Hospital.

Commission conclusion: "Doctors at Parkland Hospital initially believed that the throat wound could have been either an entry or exit wound, but they did not conduct an examination to determine entry and exit wounds. Subsequently, when medical examination data were obtained, doctors at Parkland Hospital concluded that it was an exit wound."

Assumption: Oswald could not have known the motorcade route before he arrived at work on November twenty-second.

Commission conclusion: "The motorcade route was published in both city newspapers"

203