Signal Copy

No. 14
TASS Reports "On the Assassination of US President John Kennedy"
and "L. Johnson Assumed the Powers of US President"

November 22, 1963

Assassination of US President John Kennedy

NEW YORK, November 22 (TASS). Associated Press correspondent reports from Dallas:

US President Kennedy and Texas Governor John Connally fell, struck by assassin's bullets at the moment when they were traveling today in an open car along one of Dallas's central streets.

NEW YORK, November 22. (TASS). Americans are shocked by the assassination of President John Kennedy.

The President was fatally wounded in the head by a shot from a large-caliber sniper rifle and thirty minutes later, at 14:00 New York time, died in a Dallas hospital (Texas). According to agency reports, the assassin shot from a fifth or sixth floor window when the president was approaching in an open car the building where he was supposed to deliver a speech.

Commentators in Dallas link this crime to the activities of ultra-right organizations.

Dallas is one of the main centers of these organizations.

Since Kennedy's arrival in Dallas, small groups of ultra-right elements have been demonstrating in various parts of the city under Confederate flags and with hostile slogans against Kennedy.

According to agency reports, in the speech that President Kennedy was supposed to deliver at breakfast and the text of which was in his pocket, he condemned his ultra-conservative opponents.

John Fitzgerald Kennedy

Outstanding American statesman John Fitzgerald Kennedy was born on May 29, 1917, in Brookline (Massachusetts).

In 1940, J. Kennedy graduated from Harvard University. From September 1941 to April 1943, he served in the Navy and participated in World War II in the Pacific theater of operations. After the war, J. Kennedy worked in journalism.

In 1946, he was elected to the House of Representatives of the US Congress from Massachusetts. In 1952 he was elected and in 1958 re-elected to the Senate. In 1960, he was nominated as presidential candidate from the Democratic Party and elected president. J. Kennedy held the post of President of the United States of America from January 20, 1961.

74