Signal Copy

with reference to verified sources regarding Oswald's application in late September of this year for visas at the Soviet and Cuban embassies in Mexico.

Since visas were not issued to Oswald, Cuban friends intend, in response to the article in "Excelsior" newspaper, to confirm his visa application, emphasizing that Oswald acted according to a pre-developed plan.

For the purpose of coordinating our positions in this matter, Comrades Dorticos and R. Castro request to inform them of our available data on Oswald and develop unified tactics.

The USSR MFA and KGB consider it expedient to share with Cuban friends our information about Oswald, while noting that until now we have mainly limited ourselves to publishing American reports and press commentary from other countries, which by themselves exposed the provocative nature of American statements about some involvement of the USSR and Cuba in this dirty, criminal affair and that it is hardly expedient for us to change this position at present regarding the publication of any generalizing official statements.

2. The Soviet Embassy in Mexico157 considers it expedient to visit the Mexican MFA and, referring to Mexican press reports about Oswald's application to the Soviet embassy for a visa, state that such application did take place and that the visa was denied.

The USSR MFA and KGB believe that the ambassador's proposal should be approved.

Draft resolution is attached158.

We request consideration.

A. GROMYKO                                V. SEMICHASTNIY

[Attachment]

CPSU CC RESOLUTION
On Instructions to Soviet Embassies in Cuba and Mexico Regarding Information Transfer About Oswald

1. Approve draft instructions to Soviet embassy in Havana (attachment No. 1).
2. Approve draft instructions to Soviet embassy in Mexico (attachment No. 2).

CC SECRETARY

Top Secret
Attachment 1
Draft

HAVANA
SOVIET EMBASSY

1498159. Inform Cuban friends that we have so far avoided making any official or officious statements regarding Oswald's personality and qualifying any of his actions in any way, since the Dallas police authorities through their crude provocative actions, which were reported by American press, themselves

124