Signal copy

of the automobile, nor those sitting in it." According to the most accurate calculation, all three shots were fired during a time period constituting "approximately four and eight-tenths to just over seven seconds."

The Commission had several unshakeable reasons that led it to conclude that Oswald was the President's assassin.

The rifle which fired the shots "belonged to Oswald and was in his possession." He brought it to the warehouse building on the morning of the assassination. At the time of the assassination, he was at the window from which the shots were fired. Shortly after the assassination, the rifle was found on the sixth floor, and the paper bag in which he brought the rifle to the warehouse building was found near the window. Based on expert testimony and their analysis of films taken during the motorcade investigation, the Commission concluded that a shooter possessing the "capabilities" that Oswald had could fire that number of shots in the established time period. On April 10, 1963, he attempted to kill Major General Edwin A. Walker, "thereby demonstrating his inclination toward murder." The report emphasizes that no evidence was found that Oswald or Ruby were participants in "any conspiracy - domestic or foreign - that aimed to assassinate President Kennedy."

In connection with this, the Commission "thoroughly investigated" all circumstances surrounding the planning of the motorcade route, Oswald's hiring at the Texas School Book Depository on October 15, 1963, the method of bringing the rifle into the building, the placement of book boxes near the window, Oswald's escape from the building, as well as witness testimonies of the assassination.

The Commission also investigated Oswald's financial situation, his acquaintances, and personal habits, particularly for the period after his return to America from the Soviet Union in June 1962.

The Commission concluded that there was no basis to believe that Oswald "was in the service of any foreign government or was subject to persuasion or encouragement from any foreign government," or that he was an agent of a foreign government.

The Commission investigated all of Oswald's attempts to "identify himself" with various political groups in the United States, such as the Communist Party, the so-called Fair Play for Cuba Committee, and the Socialist Workers Party. The Commission found, however, no evidence that the connections established by Oswald had any relation to the assassination.

The report further states that no one confirms the suggestion that Oswald was "an agent, informant" of the Central Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation, or any other governmental agency.

200