Signal copy

withdrew Iturup, Kunashir and the islands of the Lesser Kuril Chain, while the northern part of the Kurils remained under Russian control. Sakhalin was declared a joint possession - "undivided" territory. In 1875, the Saint Petersburg Treaty on the exchange of territories was signed, according to which Russia transferred all Kuril Islands to Japan, and Japan renounced its claims to Sakhalin. Following the results of the Russo-Japanese War, the Portsmouth Peace Treaty (1905) was signed, according to which Japan's possession extended to southern Sakhalin south of the 50th parallel. At the Yalta Conference on February 11, 1945, the "Agreement of the Three Great Powers on Far Eastern Issues" was signed, which provided for the USSR's entry into war with militaristic Japan two-three months after the end of the war in Europe. This agreed upon a number of conditions, including international legal recognition of the Mongolian People's Republic, return of Southern Sakhalin to the USSR and transfer of the Kuril Islands to it. After Japan's defeat in the war, signed the Act of Unconditional Surrender (September 2, 1945) and issued the Potsdam Declaration on August 26, 1945, Japanese sovereignty was limited to the islands of Honshu, Kyushu, Shikoku and Hokkaido, as well as less significant islands of the Japanese archipelago (by decision of the allies). All Kuril Islands by decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR dated February 2, 1946, were included in the USSR. At the San Francisco Conference in September 1951, Tokyo signed a peace treaty with 48 participating countries of the anti-fascist coalition, thereby renouncing "all rights, title and claims to the Kuril Islands". However, this document does not specify which state Japan renounces these territories to. Given the absence of PRC representatives at the conference and several other problems, the Soviet delegation refused to sign the peace treaty, considering it non-legitimate. After the failure of negotiations in San Francisco, the USSR and Japan attempted to develop a peace treaty through bilateral consultations. On October 19, 1956, in Moscow, the Joint Declaration on the Termination of the State of War between the two governments and the restoration of diplomatic and consular relations was signed. In Article 9 of the document, the Soviet government agreed to transfer to Japan the islands of Shikotan and several uninhabited islands of the Lesser Kuril Chain (called Habomai in Japan), provided that their actual transfer under Japanese control would occur after the conclusion of a peace treaty. The Declaration was ratified by both states on December 8, 1956. However, in response to the conclusion of the 1960 Japanese-American security treaty, the USSR annulled its obligations to transfer the islands. In a memorandum of the Soviet government dated January 27, 1960, it is stated that these islands will be transferred to Japan only upon the condition of withdrawal of all foreign troops from its territory.

146 See note 7.

147 Refers to the Plenum of the Central Committee of the CPSU, which took place on December 9-13, 1963. The Plenum adopted the resolution "Accelerated development of the chemical industry - the most important condition for raising agricultural production and increasing the people's welfare."

148 During the official visit to Denmark, Sweden and Norway, which took place June 16 - July 4, 1964, N.S. Khrushchev visited Sweden June 22-28.

149 From June 29 to July 13, 1959, the first official visit of the negus (king) Haile Selassie I to the USSR took place, during which a Soviet-Ethiopian trade and economic agreement was signed.

150 In August 1963, Prime Minister of Somalia Ali Shermarke visited the USSR. During his visit, agreements on further development of trade and economic cooperation, including military-technical cooperation, were concluded. By the end of 1963, there was a significant deterioration in relations between Somalia and Ethiopia. This was connected with counterinsurgency operations by Ethiopian troops against rebels in Ogaden province, populated mainly by ethnic Somalis. In early February 1964, the Ethiopian-Somali border war began (First Ogaden War).

151 Not published as not related to the topic of this collection of documents.

152 Golda Meir was Israel's ambassador to the USSR from September 1948 to April 1949.

153 A.I. Mikoyan met with the head of the Pakistani economic delegation, Minister of Fuel, Energy and Natural Resources Z.Bhutto on December 24, 1960.

154 The Agreement between the Government of the USSR and the Government of Pakistan on air communications was signed on October 7, 1963 in Karachi.

155 Not published. See document No. 47. Note with attached draft resolution as per V.N. Malin's instructions was distributed on November 27, 1963 as No. P1881 to members and candidate members of the Presidium of the CC CPSU, secretaries of the CC CPSU.

156 The cipher telegram is not found in the Archive. At this time, L.I. Alekseev was the USSR Ambassador to the Republic of Cuba.

157 At this time, S.T. Bazarov was the USSR Ambassador to Mexico.

250