[Signal copy]

to publish all materials related to this tragic event. This morning "Pravda" quoted our editorial article and reports by James Reston and Anthony Lewis from our Washington bureau on this matter.

In the same vein, my newspaper's editor instructed me to shed as much light as possible on the circumstances of Oswald's life in the Soviet Union.

He asked me to travel to Minsk to find out what could be learned about Oswald's years spent there. He also asked me to inquire with Soviet authorities whether they would be willing to provide "The New York Times" with any information they might have about Oswald. It was reported, for instance, that he wrote personal letters to members of the Soviet government, including Premier Khrushchev.

I would like to request your help in fulfilling this assignment - in obtaining permission to travel to Minsk, in cooperation with local authorities there, and in conveying to the relevant authorities here in Moscow my request to obtain information about Oswald.

I am confident you know our newspaper well enough to understand that we are not chasing sensations, but that this request is made exclusively with the aim of putting an end to rumors and half-truths.

Hoping for a quick response.

I remain sincerely yours,
Henry Tanner, head of Moscow bureau of "The New York Times"

Translated by: T. Loginov

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 378. L. 37-38. Original. Typewritten text, signatures - autographs in blue ballpoint pen and blue ink.

No. 42
Note from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko and KGB Chairman under the USSR Council of Ministers V.E. Semichastniy to the CPSU Central Committee regarding draft instructions to USSR ambassadors in Cuba and Mexico concerning the transfer of information about L.H. Oswald

No. 03413/GS                                                                                               November 27, 1963

Top Secret. Copy No. 1.

CC CPSU

1. According to the report from the ambassador in Havana (tel-No. 1498 of November 26 c.y.), comrades Dorticos and R. Castro are concerned that Mexican newspaper "Excelsior" published reports

123