[Signal copy]

The late US President, speaking in the summer of this year at American University in Washington, indicated that all countries are "mutually deeply interested in a just and genuine peace and in ending the arms race." He insisted on the ratification by the US Congress of the Moscow Treaty on banning nuclear tests in three spheres. Kennedy's steps toward improving the international situation met with sharp attacks from American "hawks."

The terrorist act against Kennedy was committed during his trip with political speeches related to the already effectively begun US presidential election campaign, which is to be held in November of next year.

L. Johnson assumed the powers of US President

WASHINGTON, November 22 (TASS). US Vice President L. Johnson assumed all constitutional powers of the US President immediately after the death of J. Kennedy, American news agencies report.

Lyndon Johnson officially took the oath as President of the United States of America.

***

Lyndon Baines Johnson was born in 1900. He received education at Texas State Teachers College and Georgetown Law School. In 1937 he was elected to Congress. From 1949-1960 he was a member of the Senate. He held several leadership positions in the Democratic Party. In the 1960 election he was elected Vice President of the USA. He took this position on January 20, 1961.

RGANI F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 1. Typographic text. Excerpt from newspaper "Pravda."
1963. November 23. No. 327.

No. 15

Note from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko to CC CPSU
regarding draft telegrams on behalf of N.S. Khrushchev, L.I. Brezhnev, N.P. Khrushcheva
and A.A. Gromyko to American leadership in connection with the assassination of J.F. Kennedy

No. 3379/GS                                                                                                November 22, 1963

Secret. Copy No. 1

TO CC CPSU

The USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents draft telegrams from Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. Khrushchev, Chairman of the Presidium of the USSR Supreme Soviet L.I. Brezhnev, N.P. Khrushcheva and USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding the assassination of US President J.F. Kennedy.

75