[Signal copy]

[Appendix]
To item 33 of protocol No. 102a

STRENGTHEN THE CAUSE OF PEACE, DEVELOP COOPERATION!b

Answers of the Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. Khrushchev to questions from 
chief editors of "Pravda" and "Izvestia" newspapers

US President J. Kennedy delivered a speech at American University in Washington on June 10, addressing several important international issues.

This speech was published in the Soviet press.

The chief editors of "Pravda" and "Izvestia" newspapers approached the Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. Khrushchev with a request to comment on this speech by the US President.

Below are N.S. Khrushchev's answers.

Question: In his speech, US President J. Kennedy paid special attention to the problem of war and peace. He stated that in our age "total war makes no sense," that "peace need not be impracticable, and war need not be inevitable." He also stated that "both the United States and its allies, and the Soviet Union and its allies, are mutually deeply interested in a just and genuine peace and in halting the arms race."

How do you assess these statements by the US President?

Answer: The speech of US President J. Kennedy attracted attention both in the USA and in other countries of the world, including the Soviet Union.

In this speech, the President addressed the most important contemporary issue: war and peace in conditions where nuclear weapons have acquired colossal destructive power, and the stockpiles of these weapons continue to grow.

I think that Soviet people took interest in the President's speech, as this speech made a step forward in the realistic assessment of the international situationc and speaks about the necessity to find ways that would save humanity from the arms race and the threat of global thermonuclear war.

The world public, all Soviet people know well that the Soviet government in its foreign policy has always proceeded from the Leninist principle of peaceful coexistence of states with different social systems. Our government made concrete proposals on ending the arms race, universal and complete disarmament, on banning

a Throughout the text of the answers, corrections were made in blue ballpoint pen and pencil. These include suggestions by L.F. Ilyichev and B.N. Ponomarev, and also, presumably, N.S. Khrushchev's assistants. When available, the editors clarified who made the corrections.
b Original version of the heading "Word about peace should be supported by practical deeds."
c Original version "...as this speech made a step forward in understanding the realistic assessment of the international situation..."

23