Signal copy

time they are more inclined to the opinion of the second group, especially given the election campaign, but in their sympathies, some of them are rather on the side of the first group.

The discussion of all these issues within the president's inner circle cannot but leave its mark on the president's own behavior, his policy, which is characterized by certain zigzags, maneuvering, paying tribute to the viewpoint of one group or another, although in general his line is now clearly closer to the second and third groups than to the first.

All these outlined factors are reflected in Kennedy's current policy. Hence, in conversations with Soviet representatives, the American government leaders' emphatic underlining of the idea that in matters of improving American-Soviet relations and resolving disputed international problems, one should not rush, that progress in this direction should be made step by step, carefully considering and spacing out over time the steps to be taken, and also trying where possible to give the achievable agreements such a form that would not require ratification of such agreements by the U.S. Senate.

Third. In practical terms, if we analyze the position of Kennedy and Rusk during the exchange of views with A.A. Gromyko, the U.S. government will likely agree, by the end of this year, in addition to the treaty on banning nuclear tests and the agreement on not placing weapons of mass destruction in Earth orbit⁵⁷, only to sign with the USSR a consular convention⁵⁸ and agreement on direct air communication⁵⁹, as well as – after concluding the wheat deal⁶⁰ – to conduct unofficial exchange of views to explore possibilities for some expansion of trade within the framework of existing American legislation; in the future, it will apparently agree to consider the question of broader trade prospects, bearing in mind, however, that the necessary revision of legislation in this case will be implemented only after the 1964 elections.

Regarding other specific issues that were touched upon to some degree in conversations with American leaders, it can be expected that the U.S. government will show willingness to return to discussing the question of a non-aggression pact between NATO and the Warsaw Treaty Organization sometime early next year after additional consultations with its allies, particularly during the December NATO Council session, taking into account our proposal to make simultaneously with the conclusion of the pact a statement, the text of which was communicated to A.A. Gromyko⁶¹. In our opinion, on the pact issue, we should continue to put pressure on the Kennedy administration.

From recent conversations with the president and other U.S. leaders, it is clear that the American government continues to show interest in reaching an agreement on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, but only on the condition that such

56