[Signal copy]

in the USA with his family, having received permission for this from the US Embassy in Moscow. In early 1963, the Oswald family applied to the USSR Embassy in Washington with a petition to allow them entry into the Soviet Union for permanent residence. This request was rejected."

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 37-42. Original. Typewritten text. Signatures-autographs in blue ballpoint pen and blue ink.

No. 35
Coded telegram from First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers 
A.I. Mikoyan to the CPSU Central Committee about a reception
organized by the widow of the late President Jacqueline Kennedy

Spec. No. 2000 - 2001                                                November 25, 1963*
Washington
                                                                TOP SECRET
                                                                Copy No. 12
                                                                URGENT

TO CPSU CC

Immediately after the memorial service at Arlington Cemetery, we, along with other foreign representatives who participated in Kennedy's funeral, went to the White House, where the widow of the late president Jacqueline Kennedy held a reception. The arriving guests were met by Kennedy family members, while Jacqueline herself appeared only at the end of the reception. Those present passed by the late president's spouse and exchanged handshakes. We noticed that Jacqueline Kennedy, who exchanged only two or three words with those presented to her, appeared very calm and even seemed to be smiling. However, when we were introduced and conveyed our most sincere condolences on behalf of Nina Petrovna, N.S. Khrushchev, Rada and Alexei Adzhubei, as well as on behalf of the Soviet government and people and on our own behalf, Jacqueline Kennedy, with great emotion and barely holding back tears, said:

"I am convinced that Chairman Khrushchev and my husband could have achieved success in the search for peace, and they truly strived for this. Now you must continue this work and bring it to completion."

We replied that we fully share her opinion and agree that both sides should continue to strive for the development of friendly relations between our countries for the benefit of peace throughout the world. We emphasized that we share her grief over the tragedy that has befallen her.

*On the first page at the top is stamped "To Khrushchev N.S."
109