Signal copy

12 On July 16 and 26, 1963, meetings were held between N.S. Khrushchev and U.S. Deputy Secretary of State A. Harriman. They discussed issues of coordinating a treaty on banning nuclear weapons tests in three environments and other disarmament issues.

13 U.S. Secretary of Interior S. Udall, heading a delegation of American hydropower engineers from August 29, 1962, familiarized himself with the operation of hydroelectric power stations in the USSR. He was the first minister to visit the USSR after the Caribbean crisis. The last day of his stay, October 6, he met with N.S. Khrushchev in Pitsunda. Chairman of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Nobel Prize laureate G. Seaborg was in the USSR from May 19 to 31, 1963, to sign a new Agreement between the State Committee on Atomic Energy of the USSR and the Commission on the peaceful use of atomic energy. On May 29, he was received by L.I. Brezhnev. On July 30, 1963, N.S. Khrushchev received a delegation of American agricultural specialists headed by U.S. Secretary of Agriculture O. Freeman.

14 The Soviet delegation headed by N.S. Khrushchev was on an official visit to the USA from September 15 to 27, 1959. During the visit, N.S. Khrushchev visited Washington, New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Des Moines, Pittsburgh, and Camp David. During the visit on September 16, N.S. Khrushchev and a group of USSR Supreme Soviet deputies visited the U.S. Congress, where they met with Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman W. Fulbright and Senate Majority Leader L. Johnson.

15 In a conversation with German writer Emil Ludwig on December 13, 1931, when asked why everything American is so respected in the USSR, I.V. Stalin replied: "You exaggerate. We have no special respect for everything American. But we respect American efficiency in everything - in industry, in technology, in literature, in life; we never forget that the USA is a capitalist country. But among Americans there are many healthy people both spiritually and physically, healthy in their approach to work, to business. We sympathize with this efficiency, this simplicity. Despite America being a highly developed capitalist country, there is something democratic in its industry, which cannot be said about the old European capitalist countries, where the spirit of feudal aristocracy still lives." (Bolshevik 1932, April 30, No. 8).

[Continued in next part due to length]

239