Special Memorandum

I would like to ask further, continues N.S. Khrushchev, when you and we recognized the government of Ayub Khan, was the opinion of the people of Pakistan sought? After all, Ayub Khan removed the government that was elected on a democratic basis. Did you ask the people of Guatemala after the president was expelled from there and the legitimate government was overthrown with the help of American intelligence? Did you ask the people of South Vietnam, where Diem carries out brutal repressions against the population? If you ask the people, you will be convinced that the people do not want Diem's regime and he would have to leave immediately without you. So let's not raise such questions. We can also recall that the United States more than fifty years ago "voted" by war against England, and we did the same when we drove out the White Guards and their American, English, French, Polish, and other allies. People fight according to their own laws and methods. We can also remind you that you recognized Franco's regime, which overthrew the legitimate government of Spain. Who chose this bandit government that was imposed on the people of Spain? And such governments can be found in abundance.

Rusk notes that there is a significant difference in those cases where the fall of governments was an internal matter. One could develop quite lively debates on this issue, since the American side also has its own view on certain governments in different countries. But he, Rusk, does not intend to delve into this question. He understands that N.S. Khrushchev has his own position on this matter, and can only regret that a common language cannot be found.

Rusk jokingly remarks that he is not an optimist in this case and does not hope that this problem can be solved now, at this table, although that would be good.

N.S. Khrushchev says that he has an unpleasant question: according to the Geneva agreements, elections were supposed to be held in South Vietnam, however, two years prescribed by the agreements have long passed, and there are still no elections, they were disrupted by the USA. In this case, the American side shows a clearly mercantile approach – it declares what is beneficial to it as democratic and proper process.

N.S. Khrushchev further notes that, apparently, this question needs to be set aside and talk about a more harmless matter – trade. We would like to purchase a large amount of chemical equipment in America. If we were given the opportunity to negotiate with American industrialists, we would come to an agreement with them.

Rusk says that Minister Freeman spoke to him about his conversation with N.S. Khrushchev on these issues. Besides that, he, Rusk, discussed this topic with President Kennedy. As A.A. Gromyko has already said, the American side is considering the question of selling chemical plants to the Soviet Union. It is ready to discuss this. Speaking about trade, two groups of goods can be distinguished: those covered by acts of Congress, and those

42