[Signal copy]

as co-chairs, and will facilitate compliance with the agreements, striving to resolve emerging differences. According to Rusk, it would be an encouraging factor for the cause of peace if the Soviet Union, England, USA, and other participants of the Geneva agreements would continue to provide public support for the Geneva agreements. He also hopes that the Soviet Union can influence the Polish representative in the International Control Commission to cooperate with the ICC and show a positive and constructive attitude toward emerging issues. We hope, Rusk continues, that the Soviet Union will clearly demonstrate that it supports the independence and neutrality of Laos. I would like to add that, as President Kennedy indicated, we have no ambitious designs regarding Laos. Anyone who has seen the Laotians in their country would not want them as allies. It must be said that these are strange people who have their own peculiar approach to all issues. We advocate for Laotians to resolve their own issues. I want to remind that President Kennedy, upon coming to power, showed certain courage and changed American policy regarding Laos, which was not always as it is now.

N.S. Khrushchev notes that we no longer want to deal with Laotian issues. We believe we have achieved the goals regarding which an agreement was reached with President Kennedy in Vienna. In Laos, a neutral government was created headed by Souvanna Phouma, who pursued a policy of neutrality. Now they want to fight among themselves. And what should we do? Send troops there? The Americans have good experience in this matter. They sent troops to South Vietnam to, so to speak, support Diem's pants, and these American soldiers are being quietly killed. We adhere to a different policy, we don't want to interfere in Laos's affairs and believe that the people should figure everything out themselves. There is their own government, and we cannot impose our recommendations, especially since we're not being asked about this. They might simply ask - who are you to interfere in matters that don't concern you. We believe we have fulfilled our functions and do not intend to undertake any new measures. There are three forces led by three princes, let them fight among themselves and come to their senses. I don't want to get a headache because of Laos, I have my own obligations to my people. We have neither troops nor observers in Laos, only an ambassador who listens to what the Laotian government tells him and relays this to us. We believe we have fulfilled our obligations well, and now, apparently, the second stage has begun, so let them fight among themselves, maybe they'll wise up.

N.S. Khrushchev jokingly remarks that good hosts save the sweet dish for the end of dinner, while Rusk brought bitter pills at the end of the conversation. N.S. Khrushchev suggests continuing the conversation at the dinner table.

45