weapons. Therefore, I do not think that the Soviet Union really believes that we want to transfer these weapons to anyone. The Soviet government is currently concerned about plans to create multilateral nuclear forces, and I fully understand this. However, this is explained by the fact that you are not familiar with the specific measures being planned in this area. By the way, all the details of these measures have not yet been fully developed and continue to be discussed with our allies. When they are finally developed, you will see that we really have no intention of transferring nuclear weapons to others.

We are concerned about China's position in this regard, as we see no prospect of China signing any agreement on this issue.

So, it can be said that over the past 1-2 years, an understanding has emerged that our two countries have common interests, on the basis of which agreements can be reached even without formal agreements, although we should, of course, strive for such agreements whenever possible.

I replied to Rusk that we agree that if it proves impossible to reach a formal agreement on some issues, at least a tacit understanding can be achieved.

However, in the USA over the past three years, the arms race has grown continuously, and we do not see this process slowing down. For our part, we are ready to agree to slow down the arms race based on tacit agreement between the parties. But such intention needs to be confirmed by facts, which we do not see from the American side.

Regarding nuclear non-proliferation, we agree that neither the Soviet Union nor the USA should be interested in transferring these weapons to anyone, however, this common view runs into facts indicating that the USA is pursuing a different policy in this matter. After all, the creation of multilateral nuclear forces means indirect transfer of nuclear weapons to other hands. You say that we don't know some details, but when tested for strength, it is details that often fail, in this sense it cannot be denied that with your intention to create multilateral forces, you are in one way or another involving West Germans in nuclear weapons control.

One cannot help but recall in this connection, I continued, that the 1954 Paris Agreements prohibited West Germany from having an army, building submarines, and possessing nuclear weapons. However, recently the FRG received permission to build a certain number of submarines with displacement of 1 thousand tons, the number of troops in West Germany continues to grow, as does military production. Now plans are being developed to involve West Germany in nuclear weapons control. It's hard to understand why all this is being done. We hear the argument that, they say, the FRG

129

[Signal copy]