Signal copy

to pass through me her personal letter to N.S. Khrushchev.

Thompson noted that she passed this letter to him through Bundy. No one else knows about the letter, although about the fact of the letter's transmission (not about its contents), apparently, President Johnson is informed. Rusk is "not yet aware of this matter." Thompson also said that he personally is not familiar with the contents of the letter itself.

The envelope was slightly sealed in one place. The entire letter was not typed on a machine, but written from beginning to end by Jacqueline Kennedy's own hand, which is usually considered here a sign of special respect for the addressee. She herself wrote the address on the envelope. The letter is written on small sheets with "White House" letterhead.

The text of the letter is as follows:

"White House, December 1, 1963

Dear Mr. Chairman-President,

I would like to thank You for sending Mr. Mikoyan as Your representative to my husband's funeral.

He looked so distressed when he approached me, and I was very touched by this.

I tried to say something to You through him that same day, but it was such a terrible day for me that I don't know if my words came out the way I wanted them to be.

Therefore now, in one of the last nights that I will spend in the White House, in one of the last letters that I will write on these White House letterheads, I would like to write You this message of mine.

I am sending it only because I know how deeply my husband cared about peace and what a central place in this concern was occupied in his mind by relations between You and him. He more than once quoted Your words in his speeches: "In a future war, the survivors will envy the dead."

You and he were adversaries, but You were also allies in the determination not to let the world be blown up.

You respected each other, and You could deal with each other. I know that President Johnson will make every effort to establish the same kind of relationship with You.

The danger that worried my husband was that war might be started not so much by big men as by small ones.

While big men understand the need for self-control and restraint, small men are sometimes moved more by fear and pride. If only in the future the big men could continue to make the little ones sit down and talk, before they start to fight!

I know that President Johnson will continue the policy my husband so deeply believed in - a policy of control and restraint - and he will need Your help.

I am sending this letter because I realize so deeply the importance of the relationship,

160