[Signal copy]

such a crime alone, he would not have been able to commit it. Behind all this crime are people who had great opportunities - both material and financial. They are the ones who confuse the entire investigation. It is no coincidence that the murder took place in Dallas. Kennedy essentially became a victim of his enemies. And, as it seems to me, Warren will not be able to investigate this.

L. Pierson says that there is no doubt that there were strong sentiments in Dallas against President Kennedy's policies, that the president's arrival in Dallas was accompanied by hostility towards him. Remember, continues L. Pierson, how Stevenson was received in Dallas. The presence of forces hostile to the policy of peaceful coexistence creates one of the major problems for any US president. Reactionary right-wing forces exist in the USA, and they could have been involved in Kennedy's murder...

Present at the conversation were N.P. Khrushchev and Head of Press Department of USSR MFA L.M. Zamyatin.

The conversation was recorded by L.M. Zamyatin and V.M. Sukhodrev.

RGANI. F. 52. Op. 1. D. 494. L. 93 - 100. Original. Typewritten text.

No. 73
Coded telegram from USSR Plenipotentiary Representative to UN N.T. Fedorenko
to USSR MFA about conversation with member of Presidential Commission investigating
the assassination of US President J.F. Kennedy J.McCloy regarding investigation progress

Spec. No. 1049 - 1050                                June 24, 1964
New York                                             
                                                     TOP SECRET
                                                     Copy No. 11

CC CPSU

On June 23 at Arthur Dean's reception in honor of delegation headed by academician M.D. Millionshchikov, had the following conversation with McCloy, member of Warren Commission investigating circumstances of President Kennedy's assassination:

First. Noting that the fact of Kennedy's assassination caused various interpretations in USA and other countries, McCloy expressed interest in our point of view.

[Footnotes:]
a At bottom of last page signatures of V.M. Sukhodrev and L.M. Zamyatin in blue ink and date "3/V".
b On first page at top stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."
c Here and further underlined in document text.

189