Signal Copy

between our countries and especially regarding those unique confidential connections that were established between the heads of our governments and which have proven themselves well. I do not know yet how everything will develop in this regard further.

Agreed to meet with him tomorrow, in a home setting for an unofficial exchange of opinions regarding the developing situation.

A. Dobrynin

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 328. L. 110. Copy. Typewritten text on a cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 23
Cipher telegram from KGB resident in Washington to KGB at the USSR Council of Ministers with the text of L.H. Oswald's last letter to the Soviet embassy

No. 1023                                                                                           November 23, 1963
Washington

TOP SECRET
Copy No. 1

We transmit the text of Oswald's last letter to the embassy dated November 9 of this year.
The letter is written in poor English and contains several unclear and incomprehensible passages for us. It is completely unclear why he wrote a letter of such content to the embassy. All this somewhat resembles a provocation.

"Dear Sirs! I am informing you about recent events since my meetings with comrade Kostin at the Soviet Union embassy, Mexico City, Mexico. I could not stay in Mexico indefinitely due to restrictions on my Mexican visa, which was only for 15 days. Since I could not reveal my real surname, I did not decide to request a new visa and returned to the United States. I had not planned in advance to contact the Soviet embassy in Mexico, therefore it was not prepared. If I could have contacted the Soviet embassy in Havana as planned, the embassy there would have had time to complete our business. Of course, the Soviet embassy is not at fault that it, as I say, was not prepared; the Cuban consul is guilty of serious violation of rules, I am glad he has already been replaced. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is not currently interested in my activities in the progressive organization 'Fair Play for Cuba Committee', of which I was secretary"

[Note at bottom of page:] *At the top of first page is stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."

84