Signal copy

in Europe that it could rely on, and is betting on Adenauer, i.e. engaging in political speculation. This is one of the consequences of imperialism's degeneration, its unresolvable contradictions, but I wouldn't want to delve deeper into this.

Regarding the position of the British government, it can be said that the conservatives are also for a peace treaty, but don't want to declare this to avoid disrupting the Western orchestra. The Labour Party has long stated that they consider our position on this issue reasonable. Spaak told me, and he knows well the opinion of those NATO countries where the so-called workers' parties are in power, that they are also for a peace treaty. Denmark, Norway, Holland, Luxembourg and others are not against the treaty. Thus, West Germany remains, and France, which does this in the interests of its struggle for leadership in Europe, to push out US political influence from Europe and take this place, but it is weak and wants to achieve this by relying on West Germany. I believe that the US government's position is similar to England's, and if it weren't for such political speculations by France, the United States could have proceeded with signing the peace treaty. It's also clear that there is a certain influence from Adenauer here. Strange as it may be, it turns out that Adenauer has become a figure determining international policy. He imposes his views, his aggressive course directed against socialist countries. It turns out that the defeated are leading the victors.

If we look at our and your position, NATO's position, you essentially acknowledge the conclusion that war cannot change the existing borders established after World War II. But this needs to be formalized publicly, and the peace treaty pursues exactly this goal. In the West, some want to maintain the Cold War, but this is dangerous. Now, 10 years after Dulles called for pushing back socialism in Europe, you are beginning to realize you were wrong. The borders must be recognized legally. They tell us - we need to wait. But it's hard to say what will happen in five to ten years. The world changes quickly. Undesirable political events may occur, people may lose patience and hope, and Eastern European countries may proceed with unilateral signing of the treaty. We have said and continue to say that we would welcome the opportunity to sign the treaty together, but we may be forced to sign the treaty unilaterally. You state that this will lead to war, but we think Americans will have more common sense than stupidity. What sense is there, really, for Americans to wage war in defense of Adenauer's interests, who, by the way, may die soon, as we are all mortal.

Rusk says that he would like to make several general observations. He was left with a deep impression from his trip to the Soviet Union and from what he saw of how the Soviet people work. He traveled across America from San Francisco to New York and knows how the American people work. There is no doubt that both the American people and

38