Signal copy

approached her and exchanged handshakes, with some she exchanged a few words. Mikoyan had received information beforehand to ensure he would approach as one of the last or even the very last. When Anastas Ivanovich and Dobrynin approached the widow, the latter said "with great feeling and barely holding back tears": "I am convinced that Chairman Khrushchev and my husband could have achieved success in the search for peace, and they truly strived for this. Now you must continue this work and see it through to the end." Zhaklin spoke this "inspiringly and movingly," holding Mikoyan's hand in her hands, "trying as convincingly as possible to convey her feelings and thoughts regarding the cause of peace, to which her husband had dedicated his efforts, and her desire for our countries to complete the work that was begun"33. All this undoubtedly touched such an experienced politician as Mikoyan.

After the reception at the White House, a brief reception was held at the State Department for representatives of foreign states with the participation of the new U.S. President. It was attended by 26 presidents and heads of government, 30 foreign ministers, five defense ministers, dozens of ruling families - representatives of 53 states in total. While waiting to meet with Johnson, Mikoyan managed to briefly talk with the new British Prime Minister A. Douglas-Home, French President Ch. de Gaulle, Swedish Prime Minister T. Erlander, Emperor of Ethiopia Haile Selassie, President of Israel Z. Shazar, and Japanese Prime Minister H. Ikeda.

On Tuesday morning, November 26, Mikoyan and his entourage held a more detailed conversation with L. Johnson, in the second half of the day - with D. Rusk, and in the evening - with British Prime Minister A. Douglas-Home and Emperor of Ethiopia Haile Selassie. Dobrynin recalled that Mikoyan went to the conversation with Johnson "with some anxiety"34. However, everything went well. The President was flattered by Khrushchev's personal confidential message and conveyed his own message to the Soviet leader, adding that this letter became the first document he signed upon taking the Oval Office35. Johnson proposed to continue exchanging such messages and even, according to Dobrynin's recollections, added: "Perhaps we will achieve more than

33 See doc. No. 35. A.F. Dobrynin in his memoirs somewhat differently conveys Zhaklin's words: "That morning, when they buried my husband, he unexpectedly said to me at breakfast that something needed to be done to maintain good relations with Russia. I don't know what caused these words at that particular moment, but they sounded like the result of some deep thinking. I am convinced that Premier Khrushchev and my husband could have achieved success in the search for peace, and they truly strived for this. Now both governments must continue this work and see it through to the end" (Dobrynin. Strictly Confidentially..., P. 97).
34 Dobrynin. Strictly Confidentially..., P. 107.
35 See doc. No. 38.

11