[Signal copy]

humanist. Therefore, emphasized t. Mikoyan, I would like to ask you not to succumb to press fabrications, as I believe that good relations with Cuba are in the interests of the USA.

Johnson again emphasized that he spoke with full responsibility and sincerity about US intentions regarding Cuba. He reiterated: "We have no plans to invade Cuba, and we have no grounds for invasion of other countries either through subversive actions or by any other means."

In Moscow, it is believed that the new president will be forced to abide by the non-invasion commitments regarding Cuba that were made by Kennedy in October of last year and which Johnson has now confirmed. These commitments will bind Johnson at least until the next election in the coming year, and if he is re-elected, these commitments will maintain their significance for the subsequent presidential term, which will constrain aggressive US circles in their actions against Cuba. As you remember, we assessed the situation similarly earlier when discussing Kennedy's commitments. We proceeded from the assumption that if Kennedy were re-elected, these commitments would remain in force.

Speaking now about Johnson, we also take into account his statement that he fully shared his predecessor's policy while still vice-president. We believe that it would be most disadvantageous for the United States itself to return to the crisis state that existed in October of last year.

This, of course, does not mean that the US will change its hostile attitude toward Cuba and will not incite Cuban internal counter-revolutionary forces to active demonstrations. Of course, they will do this just as they do with other socialist countries, including the Soviet Union. It can be said that US instigation against Cuba will be directly proportional to the activity of internal counter-revolutionary forces in Cuba itself. To this should be added that the US, of course, will try to send their agents to Cuba.

By the way, they send them to us as well, and we catch these agents, as, indeed, you do. Of course, the forms of subversive activities against us and against Cuba are different. We are stronger and have greater capabilities to take effective measures against such subversive actions. You are in more difficult conditions, and it is harder for you to counter such hostile activities.

We have thought a lot about the situation developing as a result of Kennedy's assassination and the new president L. Johnson's rise to power. It is now becoming evident that Kennedy was removed from the political arena by the most right-wing forces in the US, who were dissatisfied with his course both in domestic and foreign policy. Johnson now declares that in foreign policy he will continue to strive for achieving the same goals that Kennedy pursued. If we assume that Johnson will indeed mainly adhere to his predecessor's foreign policy course

137