[Signal copy]

corresponding security organs of the Soviet Union. However, the American side does not possess this data, although it could have substantial significance for reconstructing the complete picture of Oswald's behavior.

To my remark that, as is known, the USSR Embassy in the USA had transmitted relevant documents concerning Oswald to the State Department in its time, McCloy replied that he is familiar with these documents, but they are too laconic and do not contain materials characterizing Oswald's behavior in the Soviet Union in the part that could interest the investigative bodies. As if wishing to clarify his thought, McCloy emphasized that the materials in Warren Commission's possession about Oswald undoubtedly point to the fact that Oswald actually acted exclusively alone and was not connected with any conspiratorial forces either within the country or outside the USA.

3. Explaining the circumstances of Oswald's murder by Jack Ruby, the interlocutor indicated that Ruby's actions, as evidenced by undoubted facts, to some degree were connected to attempts to "erase traces of Kennedy's murder in Dallas." Ruby's actions were entirely conditioned by his personal adventurism, which characterized Ruby throughout his life, connected with people of dubious reputation and gun-related activities. McCloy emphasized that the Commission establishes no connection between the fact of Kennedy's murder and Ruby's shooting of Oswald. At this, McCloy briefly told about how he, McCloy, together with other Commission members studied in detail the situation at the scene.

Answering my question about what testimony Oswald gave, the Warren Commission interlocutor acknowledged that, unfortunately, Oswald's interrogations in Dallas police prison were not recorded on magnetic tape, and therefore one has to rely only on notes and oral reports of Dallas investigative agents. However, noted McCloy, according to available materials, Oswald until the last moment did not admit guilt and denied that he was the killer of President Kennedy or other persons.

4. Characterizing Marina Oswald's role, the interlocutor stated that "Marina confirmed the attempted assassination of General Walker by Oswald and the planned attempt on Nixon. She also testified about the fact that Kennedy's killer was indeed Oswald." At this McCloy emphasized several times that Marina Oswald is "not at all naive, and her testimony has substantial significance."

5. To my remark that inconsistencies are found in Marina Oswald's and Oswald's mother's testimonies, judging by press materials, McCloy said that the statements and behavior of Oswald's mother cause deep disappointment in the Commission. Oswald's mother is largely to blame for how her son was formed and for the tragic consequences this led to. She showed too little concern about maternal care for her son, showed irresponsibility, and recently, in her cynical attitude toward her son, it's enough to refer to the fact that, continued McCloy, Oswald's mother, having written a letter to President Johnson and receiving his response, declared that "Johnson owes everything to my son. He would be nothing if not for my son's act..." Oswald's mother, continued McCloy, demands recognition of her special role in connection with the tragedy in Dallas, and demands that she be properly honored and rewarded, as befits in those cases when people acquire great fame and popularity. McCloy added that it is unpleasant for him to speak about Oswald's mother because she essentially reduces everything to publicity and extracting material benefit from what happened in Dallas.

At the end of the conversation, McCloy noted that he understands with sympathy the attitudes and views on the events in Dallas from Soviet people, who see in Kennedy's murder a certain conspiracy and the possibility of dark forces. Similar views, said McCloy, are quite characteristic for European countries as well. One can say that in Europe there exists barely a single respectable opinion that Kennedy's murder was carried out by political opponents of that regime which was established during his time in the White House. However, noted the interlocutor, such views cannot be supported by any documentary or factual evidence.

Present during the conversation were I.D. Millionshchikov and spouse McCloy (RGANI. F. 5. Op. 50. D. 397. L. 188-191. Copy (2 copies). Typewritten text. Second copy made with blue ink pen).

236 The coded telegram was received at USSR MFA on July 24, 1964 at 21:15. Copies of the coded telegram were sent to members of the CC CPSU Presidium, candidates for CC CPSU Presidium membership, A.A. Gromyko, P.E. Semichastny and V.V. Kuznetsov.

237 Mark Lane - one of the leading researchers, author and proponent of the conspiracy theory regarding J.F. Kennedy's murder. He wrote about 10 books on this topic, the main one being "Rush to Judgment: A Critique of the Warren Commission's Inquiry into the Murders of President John F. Kennedy, Officer J.D. Tippit and Lee Harvey Oswald", 1966.

257