Signal Copy

No. 45
Coded telegram from First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers 
A.I. Mikoyan to the CC CPSU regarding the reaction of White House staff 
to N.S. Khrushchev's visit to the US Embassy in Moscow

Spec. No. 2034                                                                                     November 27, 1963
Washington
                                                                                                             TOP SECRET
                                                                                                             Copy No. 12
                                                                                                             URGENT

TO CC CPSU

On November 26 at the White House, before we were taken to the President's office, White House Press Secretary Salinger approached comrade Sukhodrev and asked him to unofficially convey to comrade N.S. Khrushchev the most sincere appreciation on behalf of all White House staff and friends of the President for comrade N.S. Khrushchev visiting the US Embassy in Moscow to personally honor the memory of the late President. He emphasized that this gesture made a great and very good impression on all White House staff who knew Kennedy well and worked closely with him. Salinger also expressed gratitude for the condolence telegrams and for our special arrival to the US to participate in Kennedy's funeral. He spoke all this with great sincerity and emotion.

A.MIKOYAN

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 57-58. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 46
Resolution of CC CPSU Presidium "Report of comrade A.I. Mikoyan on trip to USA"

No. P125/39                                                                                        November 28, 1963

To approve the activities of First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers comrade A.I. Mikoyan, who traveled to the USA in November 1963 to participate in the funeral of US President John F. Kennedy and during meetings with new US President L. Johnson.

* On the first page at top stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."
b At bottom of page note "To be dated November 28, 1967 (instruction of comrade Malin V.N.). Text of decision coordinated with comrade Malin V.N. M.Sokolov 9.1.64"

134