[Signal Copy]

In April 1961 in Minsk, Oswald married a Soviet citizen Prussakova Marina Nikolaevna, born in 1941, who worked as a nurse.

Contrary to his initial statement about the impossibility of his residence in the USA, from early 1961 Oswald began persistently seeking permission to leave the USSR, in connection with which he established official correspondence with the US Embassy in Moscow, and in July 1961 visited the embassy with his wife for this purpose. Since there were no obstacles to Oswald and his wife's departure from the USSR, and considering that he was granted only temporary residence in the USSR, they were given permission to leave and in June 1962 they departed for the USA.

In March 1963, Oswald-Prussakova appealed to the USSR Embassy in Washington with a written request to allow her to return to the USSR for permanent residence, with residence in Leningrad. In her application, Oswald-Prussakova stated that her reasons for requesting permission to return to the USSR were homesickness for her Homeland, as well as financial difficulties that she was experiencing with her family in the USA. Oswald-Prussakova's petition was forwarded by the USSR Embassy for consideration to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the RSFSR.

Due to the fact that Oswald-Prussakova's relatives living in Leningrad did not express a desire to accept her, she was denied permission to enter the USSR. Oswald also appealed to the Soviet Embassy in Washington with a similar request at the same time, but his petition was not considered due to the previous denial to his wife.

In October 1963, Oswald visited the Soviet Embassy in Mexico and again appealed with a request to grant him political asylum in the USSR, citing that he, as a secretary of a pro-Cuban organization, was being pursued by FBI agents. This petition by Oswald was reviewed by the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the KGB under the Council of Ministers of the USSR and was rejected for the same reasons his previous requests were rejected.

CHAIRMAN OF THE STATE SECURITY COMMITTEE
V.SEMICHASTNIY

TsA FSB RF. F. 5-os. Op. 10. D. 72. L. 344 - 346. Copy (2 copies). Typewritten text.

91