Signal Copy

interests of both countries. The representative declined to comment on which specific issues were discussed at the meeting. The conversation was very friendly. L. Johnson told A.I. Mikoyan that he intended to work in the interests of peace, just as the late President Kennedy had done. "Our country," Johnson said, "is ready to go its part of the way toward resolving any complex problems standing between the two countries."

Responding to a question, the White House representative stated that the new president in his conversation with A.I. Mikoyan "did not insist on meeting with the Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. Khrushchev, but did not rule out such a possibility." (TASS, p. 3 - A, 27.XI.1963)

The American press widely commented on A.I. Mikoyan's stay in the USA and his meetings with the president and other officials. The comments were generally favorable. It was noted that the meeting with A.I. Mikoyan was the longest of Johnson's seven meetings with foreign officials who arrived in Washington for Kennedy's funeral. The New York Herald Tribune's correspondent in Washington, Barrett, describing President Johnson's negotiations with foreign diplomats, notes that American circles refute reports about the emergence of new developments in American-Soviet relations. Many speculations were caused by A.I. Mikoyan's remark that "we have found some methods for conducting negotiations" on disarmament. A high-ranking State Department representative said that the US government was "puzzled" by this remark. He attributed it to misunderstanding or the use of an unfortunate expression (TASS, p.14-A, November 27, 1963).

November 27, 1963

On November 27 at 16:55 local time, A.I. Mikoyan departed from Washington to Moscow. Special Assistant to the US Secretary of State L. Thompson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs R. Davis, and Deputy Chief of Protocol of the State Department W. Toneс came to Andrews Air Force Base to see A.I. Mikoyan off.

A.I. Mikoyan was seen off by USSR Ambassador to the USA A.F. Dobrynin, USSR Permanent Representative to the UN N.T. Fedorenko, as well as heads of embassies and diplomatic missions of socialist countries in the USA, American and foreign journalists.

Before departure, A.I. Mikoyan made the following statement for the press:

"I am leaving your country after fulfilling the sad duty assigned to me by the Soviet government. During my brief stay in your capital, I had the opportunity to meet with US President Johnson and Secretary of State Rusk. I would like to express my appreciation to them for the useful discussions we had."

174