[Signal copy]

with my predecessor"36. Johnson promised that "there will be no changes in Kennedy's policy," stated that the USA would not invade Cuba37. The conversation turned out to be the longest of the seven meetings of the new president with foreign delegations during those days - instead of half an hour, it lasted almost an hour. The President spoke cordially and amicably and even showed flowers and shrubs personally planted by Kennedy next to the White House terrace. The meeting showed that the new head of the White House intended to maintain a pragmatic approach in relations with the USSR.

The meeting with Rusk lasted longer and was more acute. Mikoyan once again raised the issue of creating multilateral nuclear forces and the militarization of West Germany, particularly emphasizing that "we are not afraid of Germans, as we have so many weapons that we can destroy West Germany on the very first day if war breaks out. We fear that West Germany might provoke a war, in which you will become involved, perhaps even against your will"38. Rusk in turn assured Mikoyan that the FRG government would never get the opportunity to independently control nuclear weapons, and "multilateral nuclear forces will never become a tail that wags the dog"39.

Rusk confirmed Johnson's words about the continuity of Kennedy's foreign policy course and even proposed to agree on a joint freeze of military budgets. Already at the beginning of the conversation, he frankly said: "Between us, of course, there are major disagreements. I don't mean [...] ideological differences, which are deep and perhaps even irreconcilable in nature. After all, N.S. Khrushchev often says that we cannot convince him to become a capitalist just as he cannot convince us to become communists. But in the broader plane of interstate relations, we maintain contacts between ourselves, although we approach some problems from different positions. We believe it is necessary to continue studying and discussing these problems and should not show impatience"40.

It is significant that the American press favorably commented on Mikoyan's stay in the USA. R. Kennedy addressed Mikoyan with grateful letters. Jackie's letter, which she wrote to Khrushchev during one of her last nights

36 Dobrynin. Strictly confidentially... P. 108.
37 See doc. No. 38.
38 See doc. No. 44.
39 See doc. No. 44.
40 See doc. No. 44.

12