Signal copy

from meeting with Johnson, and to seriously negotiate with him about further paths of development of Soviet-American relations. Thompson confidentially and persistently emphasized that in practical terms, a conversation with Rusk might yield more than with Johnson, although establishing first contacts with the new president is undoubtedly necessary and useful.

Responded to Thompson that I will convey his considerations to A.I. Mikoyan.

2. Thompson personally deeply regrets the death of Kennedy, with whom he had established good trusting relations, and they understood each other with half a word. Thompson has met several times with the new president Johnson, but these meetings so far have been more formal in nature.

Thompson indicated that Johnson was familiar with a significant portion of Kennedy's personal correspondence with N.S. Khrushchev, but unlikely with all correspondence. He knows nothing, for example, about the verbal agreement regarding missiles in Turkey and Italy reached during the Cuban crisis. Johnson was present at many confidential meetings with the president on foreign policy issues, sometimes spoke up, but more often simply remained silent and then agreed with the president. Johnson thus has a general familiarity with many US foreign policy problems, but knows them superficially and has not shown much taste for details of foreign policy issues so far.

In this regard, Thompson said in strictly confidential terms, one should expect a significant strengthening of Rusk's role in foreign policy. Rusk has long been in good, almost friendly relations with Johnson. Both are from southern US states. Given Johnson's dislike for diplomatic details, Thompson expects as a result of all this that in foreign policy matters, the relationship between Johnson and Rusk will, in his view, resemble the relationship between Eisenhower and Dulles, when the former simply entrusted foreign policy matters to his Secretary of State. True, Rusk is not Dulles, and Johnson is not Eisenhower. Johnson has a more firm, ambitious and hot-tempered character than Eisenhower, but to some degree the nature of his relationship with Rusk in foreign policy will be similar.

In Thompson's opinion, supporting his consideration about the growing influence of Rusk and the State Department in general is also the fact that Johnson intends to focus now mainly on domestic policy and Congress, where he was previously Senate leader, primarily in terms of preparing for the election campaign. And he, Johnson, is firmly determined to run for US president.

Regarding foreign policy, Johnson gave instructions to Rusk yesterday to continue Kennedy's line on major foreign policy issues. Thompson heard all this from Rusk himself.

Thompson asked that his statements be treated as strictly confidential.

Regarding his own role, Thompson noted that it would apparently somewhat decrease in terms of his direct contacts with the president; this would mainly be handled by

98