Signal Copy
No. 68

Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs transmitting note from US Secretary of State D. Rusk and letter from Chairman of the President's Commission on the Investigation of President J.F. Kennedy's Assassination E. Warren requesting information about L.H. Oswald's stay in the USSR

Spec. No. 488-491                                                                                March 24, 1964
Washington                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                TOP SECRET
                                                                                                                Copy No. 12
                                                                                                                URGENT

To our No. 485:
I transmit the text of the note delivered today by Rusk, as well as a copy of Warren's letter:
"The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the Ambassador of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and has the honor to state the following.
The Department of State wishes to express its appreciation for the information already received from the Soviet Embassy regarding Lee Harvey Oswald, which contains copies of correspondence between consular staff of the Embassy and Mr. and Mrs. Lee Harvey Oswald during 1962-63. The United States Government would be grateful if the Soviet Government would provide any additional available information regarding Lee Harvey Oswald's activities during his residence in the Soviet Union from 1959 to 1962, particularly copies of any official documents concerning him.
For the information of the Soviet government, attached is a copy of the letter to the Secretary of State from the Chief Justice - Chairman of the Presidential Commission investigating President Kennedy's assassination.
Attachment: copy of letter from the Chief Justice.
Department of State Washington, March 24, 1964."
"Copy.
President's Commission
on the Investigation of the
President Kennedy Assassination
200 Maryland Avenue, Northeast
Washington, District of Columbia, 20002
March 11, 1964"

*On the first page at the top there is a stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."
179