Signal copy

However, in the same transmission, data was provided about Oswald and his "pro-communist and pro-Cuban" sympathies and connections. Soon after, it was also reported that Oswald had allegedly expressed a desire to be defended by attorney Abt, known here for court cases where he appeared in defense of American Communist Party members. It is possible that Oswald could have been prompted with this idea about Abt, which adds an even more compromising tone to the entire case.

The above-mentioned statement by the State Department representative was transmitted only once, and it got lost in the continuous speculations and conjectures by radio and television regarding the Oswald case. For many Americans, it went completely unnoticed.

In the evening, our correspondent, who knows Salinger well personally, had a brief unofficial conversation with him. When asked why the White House had not published any statement similar to the one mentioned above but more authoritative and noticeable for everyone, Salinger, hopelessly waving his hand, stated that currently no one in the White House is confirming anything for publication. "The situation is very complex, many things are still unknown, no one wants to take any responsibility because of this." Salinger implied that the State Department representative's statement was sanctioned by Rusk, who is greatly concerned about serious international consequences due to events related to Kennedy's death. The rather timid nature of this statement is explained, as could be understood from Salinger, by the fact that Johnson has not yet given Rusk any firm instructions on this matter, and Rusk acted more on his own initiative.

Currently in the U.S. capital, there is complete confusion in various departments and ministries and tense anticipation of the new president's first steps. All sorts of assumptions and guesses are being made about possible changes in the cabinet and other high administrative positions, which according to the constitution and tradition are filled by the president himself and are subordinate only to him. Rumors have emerged about Rusk's possible replacement by Acheson, about Bundy's imminent resignation, Udall and so on.

Undoubtedly, there is a certain element of exaggeration and speculation in all these rumors. Apparently, Johnson will not rush into mass reshuffling to avoid causing widespread discontent within the Democratic Party itself, especially on the eve of elections, and time is needed for him to figure out the complex U.S. administrative machine. However, serious observers close to the White House, in private conversations, express a unanimous opinion that the first to leave the cabinet, judging by everything, will be Robert Kennedy. He has poor personal relations with Johnson, especially after the Ministry of Justice, which R. Kennedy heads, helped collect compromising materials on Baker, a former Senate majority leader's aide and Johnson's personal friend (the Baker case has been at the center of attention for the past month

86