[Signal copy]

Rusk adds that discussions are currently underway in America regarding the nuclear test ban treaty, and it will take two to three weeks for the Treaty to be ratified by the Senate22. Therefore, he asks to understand that if the USA remains silent for some time on the non-aggression pact, it is only because they want to make maximum efforts to secure the highest number of positive votes for the Test Ban Treaty now.

N.S. Khrushchev says that we understand this and in this case, we are in no hurry.

N.S. Khrushchev continues: You raised the question about the sequence of measures. We also like this point of view - first a series of measures, and then signing the non-aggression pact. We would also prefer to resolve the main issues affecting our relations, tackle the difficult but actually simple questions - signing the German peace treaty and resolving the West Berlin issue on this basis. These are the main problems requiring their solution and, so to speak, "thorny" problems.

In our time, we had a questionnaire survey of institution employees and they tell such a case that to the question: "do you believe in God?" one employee answered: "not at work, but at home - I do." It's the same with the peace treaty - if you ask one on one: are you for the peace treaty? They answer confidentially - yes, but don't want to speak about it publicly. When in conversation with Eisenhower I raised the question of the German peace treaty23, I did not meet opposition from him. In this case, he thought the same as de Gaulle, who proved to me that he was not against the peace treaty24, but only for Western Germany remaining in the alliance of Western countries.

I told him that this is a question that the West Germans themselves must decide. De Gaulle even stated that it's good that there are two Germanies, and it would be even better to have three Germanies, and generally there's no need to hurry with resolving this question, let it remain as it is. This is, of course, an incorrect position. The peoples must decide their own fate.

N.S. Khrushchev further notes that he asked Eisenhower why the USA is arming West Germany, after all, it's dangerous. Eisenhower replied that Germany competes with America economically and competes quite successfully. If West Germany is free from armament expenses, it will become an even more dangerous competitor to the USA, so it's advantageous for them to arm Germany.

As for de Gaulle's position, it must be said that, strange as it may seem, he has gone further than all Western countries on the question of borders and publicly stated that he recognizes the German borders25, while others only whisper about this.

If we analyze, continues N.S. Khrushchev, who in NATO countries opposes the peace treaty, it becomes clear that only Adenauer does. De Gaulle opposes it only in form, but in essence, he is for the treaty. He does this because he thinks it will help in his struggle with America; therefore he seeks a strong state

37