Signal Copy

MEMO: No. 2054 (inc. No. 55380) dated 30.XI.63 r. Dobrynin informed about the meeting with Reston and providing him photocopies of correspondence with Oswald.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 103 - 106. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 58
Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR MFA
regarding conversation with Washington Bureau Chief of "New York Times" J. Reston
about L.H. Oswald's connections and President USA L. Johnson

Spec. No. 2067 - 2068                                                December 3, 1963
Washington                                                           TOP SECRET
                                                                    Copy No. 12
                                                                    URGENT

I had a meeting with Reston, head of the Washington bureau of "New York Times," whom I have known for a long time.

1. Reston was interested unofficially in reports that appeared here from American correspondents in Moscow stating that Soviet press began indicating Oswald's connection with American intelligence. Emphasizing the important nature of these communications, if they reflect concrete facts, Reston asked whether these facts relate to the period of Oswald's stay in the Soviet Union.

I replied to Reston that the idea of Oswald's connection with American intelligence was expressed, as known, recently by an American stenographer, to whom Oswald came to print excerpts from some future book of his. Apparently, Soviet newspapers could have printed about this fact, though it's difficult to say precisely now, as these newspapers arrive here in Washington with a 2-3 day delay. Reston noted that this might be the same story, although in American press it is presented as independent Soviet accusations, which cannot but provoke new speculation and debate around the circumstances of the president's death.

2. Unofficially, Reston reported that FBI investigators working on Oswald's case have personal instructions from Johnson to thoroughly check possible connections between Oswald and Castro's government and PRC. The matter is that some influential figures in Washington are gossiping behind the scenes, said Reston, about whether Oswald received money and instructions from the Chinese. Such assumptions, but much more frequently, can be heard

*On the first page at top stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."
156