[Signal copy]

187 See note 59.

188 In November 1963, approximately three tons of light firearms and ammunition were discovered on Paraguara beach (Falcon state).

189 This refers to attempts since May 1962 by representatives of the Communist Party of Venezuela and the Revolutionary Left Movement to develop urban guerrilla and partisan movement aimed at armed overthrow of R. Betancourt's center-left government. In November 1963, on the eve of presidential elections and after the government's disclosure of the Cuban plot to overthrow the government and weapons discovery (see note 188), numerous armed actions took place in Caracas and other cities (bomb explosions, attacks on banks, shootouts with police) organized by opposition movements. In response, Betancourt suspended civil liberties in the country and began mass arrests of communists. Despite this, presidential elections were held on December 1, in which Betancourt's associate Raul Leoni won.

190 The NATO Council of Ministers session was held on December 15-16, 1963 in Paris.

191 The translation of the letter was distributed no later than June 30, 1964 under No. 6891-AM to members and candidate members of the CPSU CC Presidium, CPSU CC secretaries and A.A. Gromyko.

192 This refers to the Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. Khrushchev.

193 The coded telegram arrived at the USSR MFA on December 2, 1963 at 06:30. Copies of the coded telegram were sent to CPSU CC Presidium members, candidate members B.N. Ponomarev, A.A. Gromyko, V.E. Semichastniy and V.V. Kuznetsov.

194 See document No. 54.

195 The delegation of the USSR State Committee for the Use of Atomic Energy headed by A.M. Petrosyants visited the USA from November 17 to December 2, 1963 with a return visit to familiarize themselves with work on the peaceful use of atomic energy.

196 On the same day, TASS channels transmitted the following message titled "On Investigation of Kennedy Assassination Circumstances." The report stated: "NEW YORK, December 1 (TASS). Under the headline 'Russians Help Investigate Oswald Case; They Present Available Evidence' the New York Times publishes the following Jack Raymond correspondence:

Washington, November 30. The Soviet Union, showing unusual willingness to cooperate, today handed over to the State Department documents which, in their opinion, could help investigate the circumstances of President Kennedy's assassination.

All these documents, written in Russian, were transferred to the Department of Justice. Specialists immediately began translating them.

The Soviet measure apparently reflects the Kremlin's concern about Oswald calling himself a 'Marxist' and the fact that he lived in Russia, as well as his other connections with the Soviet Union that could present the Soviet Union in an unfavorable light in American public opinion.

Soviet leaders presumably fear that reports about connections between the alleged killer and the Soviet Union could be used to aggravate tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States.

After the president's assassination, Soviet officials continuously emphasized their sympathy for the American people and their grief over the loss of the American leader with whom, in their opinion, they could solve world problems.

Oswald came to the Soviet consulate in Mexico on September 27. He asked for a visa to enter the Soviet Union. Before this, he had come to the Cuban consulate and asked for a visa to visit Cuba en route to Moscow.

Cuban authorities told him they would only give him a transit visa if he first obtained a Soviet visa. Reports say he left the Cuban consulate in an agitated state.

Reports from Mexico say he was told at the Soviet consulate that his request for a visa to Russia would be sent to Moscow and that this would take some time. Reports say that when leaving the Soviet consulate, he was agitated.

253