[Signal copy]

concern" regarding the coverage of Soviet-American relations in the media or make an independent statement to "neutralize or deflect the current dangerous direction of American propaganda"24. As another important step emphasizing the friendly disposition of the Soviet Union, the ambassador recommended conveying through Mikoyan a personal confidential message from Khrushchev to L. Johnson, expressing hope for maintaining and developing contacts between the two countries.

In Washington, the assassination so shocked the president's immediate circle that they remained stunned for a long time. American artist W. Walton, close to the Kennedy clan, later recounted that in the first days after the assassination, the president's national security advisor M. Bundy effectively ran things25.

Rumors circulated about impending resignations in the US President's Cabinet. Dobrynin, analyzing various news, reported to Moscow that all these rumors contained certain elements of exaggeration and speculation. "Johnson will not rush into mass reshuffling to avoid causing widespread discontent within the Democratic party itself, especially on the eve of elections," - the Soviet ambassador reasonably summarized26.

The highest American leadership recognized the necessity of maintaining business relations with the USSR. Secretary of State D. Rusk played a major role in this. Already on the evening of November 23, Gosden issued the first official statement about the non-involvement of the Soviet Union, Cuba, or any other country in the US president's assassination. Likely, it was Rusk who on November 24 through L. Thompson conveyed - Khrushchev's visit to the American embassy, as well as the decision to send Mikoyan to the funeral, was viewed very positively by American leadership. All this was meant to counter anti-Soviet statements in the American press27. However, Thompson had to request that the Soviet press, in turn, stop emphasizing the role of far-right circles in Kennedy's assassination28. Thompson expressed general recommendations regarding Mikoyan's trip: for the Soviet

24 See doc. No. 20.
25 See doc. No. 63.
26 See doc. No. 24.
27 White House Press Secretary P. Salinger told Sukhodrev on November 26 "with great sincerity and excitement" that Khrushchev's visit to the American embassy made a "big and very good impression on all White House staff who were close to Kennedy" (see doc. No. 45).
28 It should be noted that Moscow complied with these recommendations. Members of the Presidium CC on November 25 removed from consideration a draft resolution prepared by MIDom and KGB about publications in Soviet press regarding

9