Signal copy

First of all, let us reconsider our attitude toward peace itself. Too many of us consider it impossible. Too many consider it unrealistic. But this is a dangerous, defeatist belief. It leads to the conclusion that war is inevitable, that we are at the mercy of forces we cannot control.

We must not accept such a view. Our problems are man-made and therefore can be solved by man. And man can be as great as he wants to be. There is no human problem beyond human capabilities. Reason and spirit have often solved what seemed unsolvable, and we believe they can do it again.

I do not mean an absolute, infinite concept of universal peace and goodwill, which some dreamers and idealists fantasize about. I do not reject the value of hopes and dreams, but we only cause disappointment and distrust if we make them our sole and immediate goal.

Let us focus instead on a more practical, more achievable world, based not on a sudden revolution in human nature but on a gradual evolution of human institutions - on a series of concrete actions and effective arrangements that would be in the interests of all concerned. There is no single simple key to this peace, no grand or magical formula that one or two powers can adopt. Genuine peace must be the product of many nations' actions. It must be dynamic, not static, adapting to meet the challenge of each generation. For peace is a process - a way of solving problems.

With such peace, conflicts and competing interests will still exist between nations, just as they exist within families and countries. World peace, like community peace, does not require that each person love their neighbor - it requires only that they live together in mutual tolerance, submitting their disputes to just and peaceful settlement. And history teaches us that enmities between nations, as between individuals, do not last forever. However fixed our likes and dislikes may seem, the tide of time and events will often bring surprising changes in relations between nations and neighbors.

So let us persevere in our pursuit. Peace need not be impracticable, and war need not be inevitable. By defining our goal more clearly, making it seem more manageable and less remote, we can help all people to see it, to draw hope from it, and to move steadily toward it.

Secondly, let us reexamine our attitude toward the Soviet Union. It is discouraging to think that their leaders may actually believe what their propagandists write. It was disheartening to read a recent authoritative Soviet text on military strategy and find on one page after another wholly baseless and incredible statements - such as the assertion that "American imperialist circles are preparing for various types of wars... that there exists a real threat of a preventive war being unleashed by American imperialists against the Soviet Union... and that the political aims of the American imperialists are to enslave European and other capitalist countries... (and) achieve world domination... by means of aggressive wars."

As was said long ago, "the wicked flee when no man pursueth." Yet it is sad to read these Soviet statements and to realize what a great gap they represent. But it also serves as a warning - a warning to the American people not to fall into the same trap as the Soviet Union, - to see only a distorted and hostile view, to regard conflict as inevitable and reconciliation impossible, and to view all communication merely as an exchange of threats.

No government or social system is so evil that its people must be considered lacking in virtue. As Americans, we find communism profoundly repugnant as a negation of personal freedom and dignity. But we can still admire the Russian people for their many achievements - in science and space, in economic and industrial growth, in culture and in acts of courage.

Among the many traits our peoples share, there is no stronger trait than our mutual abhorrence of war. Almost unique among the major world powers is the fact that our nations have never been at war with each other. And no nation in the history of battle ever suffered more than the Russian people suffered in the course of World War II. At least 20 million lost their lives. Countless millions of homes and farms were burned or ravaged.

234