Signal copy

concern about the international consequences of President Kennedy's assassination, in particular, the possible sharp right turn in US policy, up to dangerous military provocations against Cuba.

Given the highly unbalanced, immature and emotional nature of American public opinion, we must seriously consider the above-mentioned possibility, which may be used by far-right circles in the USA, especially if the new president does not take measures to calm the growing passions around Kennedy's assassination and Oswald, who is accused of this assassination.

According to available data, Rusk discussed possible international aspects of recent events with Johnson today. Details of their meeting are unknown, but correspondents who know Rusk personally tell us that he is very concerned. Some radio and television commentators are beginning to talk about a possible new crisis in Soviet-American relations, although this is mainly linked not directly to any accusations against us, but to "pro-Cuban and pro-communist sympathies" of the accused Oswald.

In connection with the above, a question arises whether we should express to the US government, either through Kohler in Moscow or through Rusk here, our concern about the tone being given to Kennedy's assassination in the American press, and draw attention to the extremely negative consequences for relations between the USSR and USA, and for world peace in general, which this tendency may have if not stopped in time. Simultaneously, as a gesture of goodwill, it might be possible to offer the American side information about Oswald that we possess (circumstances of his arrival and departure from the USSR, his wife's correspondence with the embassy, etc.).

It would also be expedient, depending on further developments, to consider the question of our possible special statement, with publication in the press, to somehow neutralize or deflect the current dangerous direction of American propaganda around Kennedy's assassination.

F. Castro should also be informed about these events so that, on one hand, the Cuban government is not caught off guard, and on the other hand, does not make any careless move that would give additional cause for the anti-Cuban campaign gradually unfolding here now.

A. Dobrynin

REFERENCE: No. 1967-1968 (incoming No. 53927) from 22.XI.63 t. Dobrynin reported about the arrest by Dallas police on suspicion of Kennedy's assassination of American citizen Lee H. Oswald, who some time ago was in the USSR and married to a Russian woman, and also about the existence of correspondence between the consular department of the embassy with Lee Oswald and his wife - Prusakova regarding the latter's return to the USSR.

82