Signal Copy

prepared by the Ministry of Justice in early December, and this report in full or, at least, its main content should be published.

Simultaneously, an independent investigation in open hearings will be conducted during December by the Senate subcommittee on internal security matters.

III.

In the official version of the circumstances of Kennedy's assassination, the question of possible motives for the attack on the president essentially remains open. However, immediately after the assassination, American propaganda launched a broad campaign aimed at presenting the case materials to the public in such a way as to create the impression that the president's murder was the work of an individual who was a convinced Marxist, connected with the US Communist Party and actively supporting Castro.

In this connection, the following circumstances were widely and in detail exploited, which became public knowledge with the direct participation of police authorities conducting the investigation.

1. Special emphasis was placed on the fact that Oswald publicly called himself a Marxist (though he denied being a communist) and claimed that he was the secretary of the New Orleans branch of the "Fair Play for Cuba Committee." In this context, Oswald's appearance on New Orleans television in August 1963 was reproduced and the fact of his arrest in New Orleans in summer 1963 for distributing "pro-Castro leaflets" was mentioned.

The press widely covered the fact that in 1959 Oswald, having arrived as a tourist to the Soviet Union, stayed there until 1962, married a Soviet citizen and requested Soviet citizenship (however, it is also mentioned that Soviet authorities denied this request).

2. The police claimed that during the search of Oswald's apartment, "communist literature" was found, including brochures, "The Worker" newspaper, "The Militant"¹⁸² weekly published by the Trotskyist "Socialist Workers Party," and letters addressed to Oswald written on CPUSA letterhead, "The Worker" newspaper and Fair Play for Cuba Committee. According to the search conducting assistant prosecutor Alexander, the letters on CPUSA and Fair Play for Cuba Committee letterheads were signed by the same person, whose name he did not disclose. The letters allegedly testify to friendly, repeated and "working" relationships between Oswald and these organizations. Oswald supposedly also had a notebook with some notes in Russian language and a plan of Moscow's Red Square. The FBI claims to possess extensive private correspondence of Oswald from the past several years, the nature of which has not yet been disclosed. Among the books Oswald was interested in recently, they name various

147