[Signal copy]

The assassin's bullet struck President J.F. Kennedy at a moment when prospects for international détente were emerging and the first signs of trust were appearing in relations between states. It is known what fierce attacks the late U.S. President faced for his steps aimed at resolving contentious international issues through achieving agreements between states, primarily between the USSR and USA.

And, of course, it is no coincidence that certain circles are now attempting to cover up tracks and conceal the true perpetrators of this heinous crime. As events around President J.F. Kennedy's assassination continue to unfold, the shadow of those who guided the assassin's hand becomes clearer. Now that Lee Harvey Oswald, who was charged with the president's murder, has himself been killed under mysterious circumstances, the absurdity and malicious intent of slanderous fabrications by certain American press organs become even more obvious as they try to establish some "connection" between Oswald and either the Soviet Union or Cuba, using as a pretext the fact that Oswald had spent some time in the Soviet Union.

As it became known, American citizen L.H. Oswald arrived in October 1959 in the Soviet Union as a tourist, as thousands of other U.S. citizens do. While in Moscow, he applied for Soviet citizenship. Since there were insufficient grounds to satisfy such a request, it was declined. After his persistent appeals, Oswald was granted temporary residence in the Soviet Union as a foreign citizen, as is commonly done with other foreigners. He lived and worked in Minsk for some time and there married a Soviet citizen. During his stay in the Soviet Union, Oswald maintained contact with the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. In 1962, Oswald decided to leave the Soviet Union and in June departed for the USA with his wife and child, having received the appropriate permission from the American Embassy in Moscow, which he had approached for this permission.

Regarding Oswald's background, according to American authorities, it is also known that he served in the U.S. Marine Corps in Taiwan, the Philippines and Japan, and after discharge from the military began traveling around European countries and, as noted above, appeared as a tourist in the Soviet Union in October 1959.

These are the facts concerning the arrival, stay and departure from the Soviet Union of American citizen L.H. Oswald. All this demonstrates the malicious nature of anti-Soviet insinuations spread by some American newspapers in connection with Oswald's arrest. Everyone who honors the memory of the late President J.F. Kennedy and his approach to resolving acute international problems understands which circles are interested in

107