Signal copy

condolences to Kennedy's widow Jacqueline, both on his own behalf and on behalf of his wife, which was a new development in Soviet diplomatic protocol.

While preparations for mourning texts were underway in nighttime Moscow, the Soviet embassy in Washington sent condolences to Jacqueline Kennedy, the president's brother Robert Kennedy, and D. Rusk. Dobrynin was awaiting further instructions from the Center when at 16:00 Associated Press news agency reported the arrest of L.H. Oswald - a former military man, supporter of communist Cuba, who had previously lived in the USSR and was married to a Soviet citizen - on suspicion of Kennedy's murder.

This news greatly disturbed Dobrynin. Later in his memoirs he wrote: "The situation began to take on an alarming character, as questions arose about Soviet involvement in the events related to Kennedy's assassination. The memory of the Cuban crisis was still fresh. Anti-Soviet sentiments could flare up again with new force. Potentially, this could lead to a new serious conflict. All these troubling thoughts gave me no peace. Of course, I was certain that we were not involved in this drama. However, I had serious concerns about the possibility that our special services might have had some connections with Oswald"16.

Troubled by this news, Dobrynin held an urgent meeting with the head of Soviet intelligence residency in Washington. The latter confirmed that neither KGB nor GRU had any connections with L.H. Oswald. The existing correspondence with Lee Harvey was conducted through regular mail and was likely already known to US authorities. The only peculiarity was Oswald's last letter to the Soviet embassy, dated November 9, 1963, but which reached Soviet diplomats only on November 18. The message was typed, not handwritten like all other Oswald's letters, and contained several unclear points. In the letter, Lee Harvey described that while in Mexico, he approached the Soviet embassy and Cuban consulate requesting visas for himself and his family to visit the USSR and Cuba, but was refused. Oswald wrote about FBI surveillance and about a federal agent's offer to his wife Marina to "betray" the Soviet Union and remain under US protection. The KGB resident in the USA, who sent a coded translation of this letter to Moscow, considered the document a forgery and provocation17.

16 Dobrynin. Strictly confidentially... P. 96.
17 See doc. No. 23.

6