[Signal copy]

2. There was a conversation at the reception with de Gaulle. Alphand, the French ambassador here, approached me and began reminiscing about how we signed a good trade agreement with him in 1945. De Gaulle was talking to someone at this time. Alphand said that de Gaulle would like to speak with me. Turning to me, de Gaulle, in good spirits, began saying that since 1944, when we last met, I hadn't changed at all, was in good shape, etc. To this compliment, I responded, in other phrases, with a compliment as well, saying that he had preserved himself well. I said that I follow his speeches and political actions, about the content of which I cannot speak favorably, but it is striking how energetically and vigorously the president works. "There is great strength in de Gaulle," I added. He said: please convey greetings to N.S. Khrushchev. I said that when we left Moscow for here, we didn't know de Gaulle would be here. Had we known, N.S. Khrushchev would certainly have asked me to convey special greetings to him.

De Gaulle stated that he warmly remembers his meetings with N.S. Khrushchev. Our relations, he said, should be the very best, as there are no divergent interests between France and the USSR. "Even your wall in Berlin is not against France, it doesn't separate France from the Soviet Union," he added.

I told de Gaulle that N.S. Khrushchev always remembers his conversations with him, from which it follows that there are no contradictions between the interests of our two countries. Moreover, I continued, we cannot understand why every Soviet initiative regarding strengthening peace in Europe and our other measures are always met with the same response from France - "No, no."

"Why measures?" exclaimed de Gaulle, "when there is peace." To this, I remarked that peace exists, but it is not stable. We need lasting peace. De Gaulle was apparently in a hurry, as it later turned out, for a meeting with the president. He said it was difficult to discuss all these issues at the moment and, saying goodbye, again asked to convey greetings to N.S. Khrushchev.

3. As we were walking to the table that had been provided for us, the Japanese Foreign Minister Ohira rose to meet us and greeted us. Then Prime Minister Ikeda approached us, and a conversation took place.

After exchanging greetings, I recalled our conversations in Tokyo and said that the Japanese government was doing little to strengthen our relations. Meanwhile, this is very important because we are neighbors and, whether we want it or not, we will remain neighbors. Strengthening good-neighborly relations between our countries is needed by Japan no less than by us.

Ikeda noted that they are also neighbors with Canada and the USA. I explained that we are not opposed to Japan's friendship with the USA and Canada and want it to be friends with us just as it is with them, to which Ikeda responded: "Return the Iturup and Kunashir islands to us, and everything will be in order." To this, I expressed my bewilderment and asked how it was possible for our

119