Special copy

...to create exactly such Germany. You apparently like that Germans place large military orders in the USA, but this is precisely what leads to the creation of a strong militarized Germany.

Take, for example, the question of concluding a non-aggression pact. Kennedy publicly spoke in favor of concluding such a pact. In conversations with Gromyko, Kennedy and you talked about how it would be possible to find a basis for concluding a non-aggression pact, but then you suddenly completely froze this issue, as it did not please West Germany. So it turns out that US policy is dependent on the wishes of the FRG. In our opinion, such a position does not serve US interests and hinders international détente.

Rusk replied that the USA in this matter proceeds exclusively from its own interests. We are not anyone's mouthpiece, he continued, and speak only for ourselves.

Regarding the issue of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, I have already said that this issue is of very great importance for the USA and the Soviet Union. In due time, I proposed to Gromyko to conclude a very simple agreement consisting of two points. The first would state that the four states currently possessing nuclear weapons commit not to transfer it to any other state, and in the second point all states not possessing nuclear weapons would commit not to receive or produce such weapons on their territory. However, Gromyko proposed to include in such agreement a provision that nuclear weapons should not be transferred to third states either directly or indirectly through military alliances. I then replied that we agree to this since we do not intend to transfer weapons to anyone at all. And I gave him a memo on this issue, which outlined the framework within which we intend to act, and from this memo it followed that the creation of multilateral nuclear forces would not give anyone the opportunity to use nuclear weapons. We could sign such an agreement today.

If the Soviet government is concerned that the creation of multinational forces might supposedly lead to our transfer of nuclear weapons to West Germany, then I can state quite definitely that we have no such intention. There may be some other reasons why the Soviet Union opposes the creation of multilateral nuclear forces. That's another matter, but in any case, the creation of these forces should not interfere with concluding an agreement on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.

In any case, it seems to us that discussion of this issue should continue in order to try to resolve it without waiting for the creation of multilateral forces, especially since not all interested states have yet given their final answer regarding these forces. The conclusion of an agreement on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is important because an increasing number of states seek to obtain this weapon, and it is in our common interests to prevent its proliferation.

131