Reference copy

Moreover, according to some reporters, the initial text of the indictment prepared in Dallas contained an assertion that Kennedy's murder by Oswald was part of an "international communist conspiracy." According to the same sources, this assertion was omitted on instructions from Washington, as the government fears that including it in the official indictment would further inflame the already heightened passions regarding Cuba and could have far-reaching consequences for US-USSR relations.

However, we consider it undoubted that reactionary circles will not cease attempting to use Oswald's alleged "pro-communist" orientation to fuel anti-communist, and particularly anti-Cuban, hysteria in the country, in order to, by speculating on feelings caused by Kennedy's murder, discredit Kennedy's own line of seeking compromises with the socialist world. In this connection, it cannot be ruled out that Kennedy's murder was organized by far-right circles precisely with this goal, and Oswald, if he was involved in this murder at all, was simply used by them as a very suitable instrument for this purpose. The police and judicial authorities of Texas, one of the most reactionary states in the USA by its attitudes, are also interested in shifting responsibility for poor protection of the president through sensational "exposures of international communist conspiracy." The Dallas police chief, where the president was killed, is especially trying hard.

People from Kennedy's inner circle express notable concern in private conversations about further development of events and their impact on the international situation. Clifford, Salinger's deputy (the latter is now in a completely confused and depressed state) stated in an unofficial conversation with our employee, whom he knows well personally, that all attempts yesterday by Kennedy's aides to contact Hoover, FBI chief, and learn anything about the circumstances of the murder and investigation progress, ended in failure. Hoover refused to provide them any information. He only reported to Johnson, who, however, has become withdrawn and is not telling any cabinet members anything about this yet. "Off the record," Clifford characterized Johnson as a person "with dictatorial inclinations" and inexperienced in foreign policy matters.

We are receiving information from other people previously close to the White House, indicating that apparently very soon there will be a replacement of Kennedy's entire inner circle and at least part of the cabinet, especially those with more or less liberal reputations. There is talk that the former president's closest aides Bundy and Sorensen intend to resign themselves.

It should be said that many people previously associated with the president's inner circle and generally well-disposed toward us express in private conversations certain

81