Signal Copy

John F. Kennedy, as I have already said, will undoubtedly go down in history as an outstanding statesman. Being in the high and very responsible position of President of the United States in our time, he proved himself as a person of broad views who sought to realistically assess the world situation and find ways to resolve unresolved international problems through negotiations. I cherish the memory of personal meetings with J.F. Kennedy, during which we frankly exchanged opinions on matters of interest to both sides. It is appropriate to note that, although the main problems dividing the world today remain unresolved, nevertheless under President Kennedy we managed through joint efforts to achieve a notable shift for the better in the international situation and in relations between our great powers. Evidence of this is primarily the conclusion of the Treaty banning nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water. The signing of this treaty was a convincing confirmation that, no matter how complex modern international problems are, solutions can be found. Achieving such solutions in the interests of maintaining and strengthening universal peace was and remains the most important task of all governments, their duty to the peoples.

Respectfully,
N. KHRUSHCHEV

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 16. D. 496. L. 146-147. Original. Typewritten text. Signatures - autographs in blue ink and blue ballpoint pen.

No. 83

Resolution of the Presidium of the CC CPSU "On the response to Robert Kennedy's appeal regarding our participation in the creation of the John F. Kennedy Memorial Library"

No. P149/34                                                                                                June 29, 1964

1. Approve the draft response letter from Comrade Khrushchev N.S. to R. Kennedy's appeal (Appendix 1).
2. Approve the draft instructions to the Soviet Embassy in the USA (Appendix 2).
3. Task the State Committee of the Council of Ministers of the USSR for Cinematography and the State Committee of the Council of Ministers of the USSR for Broadcasting and Television to prepare for transmission to R. Kennedy through the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs a Soviet chronicle-documentary film in two parts about the meeting of Comrade Khrushchev N.S. with J. Kennedy in Vienna

214