Signal Copy

No. 57

Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the Washington Post publication of information about the transfer of photocopies of correspondence with L.H. Oswald to the American government

Spec. No. 2058-2060                                                December 1, 1963
Washington
                                                                TOP SECRET
                                                                Copy No. 12
                                                                URGENT

To our No. 2054

1. Several hours after meeting with Rusk, during an evening reception at Seaborg's, Chairman of the US Atomic Commission, there was a small reception in honor of comrade Petrosyants' delegation. During the reception, Thompson approached me. He said that Rusk told him about the transfer of Oswald's correspondence photocopies. He, Thompson, considers this a very good and far-sighted step by the Soviet government. Thompson wanted to suggest this to us unofficially when A.I. Mikoyan was here, but then refrained, considering the highly delicate nature of the matter.

Then Thompson began talking about how Rusk called him again about two hours after my departure and said that "in some incomprehensible way" one of the correspondents learned about the Soviet side's decision to transfer the said photocopies to the State Department and approached him, Rusk, for confirmation or denial of this fact.

I remarked to Thompson that no correspondent saw me when I was at Rusk's, and that I can guarantee that none of our embassy staff, the vast majority of whom know nothing about this fact anyway, could have spoken with correspondents. Thompson began elaborately and confusingly constructing various versions about how this correspondent came to know about this matter. He also hinted at the possibility of such information coming from Moscow. Thompson avoided, however, naming the correspondent, noting only that this was a serious person and "his information usually has solid foundation." Thompson said nothing more on this topic.

When I returned from the reception, the first editions of the Sunday Washington Post (published Saturday evening) already reported under large headlines about my meeting with Rusk and the transfer of photocopies of embassy correspondence with Oswald (article transmitted via TASS). Today these reports are in all newspapers. Overall, commentary regarding our step is favorable. All emphasize our initiative. Several newspapers specifically indicate that US official authorities are far from any thought of Oswald's connection with the Soviet Union. Regarding the correspondence itself, they report that it apparently

*Top of first page stamped "To Khrushchev N.S."
154