Signal Copy

No. 8
Resolution of the Presidium of the CC CPSU "On messages from Comrade Khrushchev N.S.
to US President Kennedy and Prime Minister of Great Britain Macmillan
regarding the entry into force of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons Tests
in Three Environments"

No. П118/25                                                                                                                 October 9, 1963

1. To approve the text of messages from Comrade Khrushchev N.S. to US President J. Kennedy and Prime Minister of Great Britain H. Macmillan (attached).
2. To publish the messages from Comrade Khrushchev N.S. in the press.

[Attachment]
To point 25 of prot[ocol] No. 118

Dear Mr. President (Prime Minister)*,
Today in three capitals - Moscow, Washington and London, the final act has been completed in connection with the conclusion of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons Tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water - the ratification instruments of the original participants of this treaty - the Soviet Union, the United States of America and Great Britain have been deposited for safekeeping.

Thus, the treaty banning nuclear weapons tests has entered into force. This is, undoubtedly, a momentous event in international life that will bring joy to all peoples.

Together with the Soviet Union, the United States of America and Great Britain, the treaty banning nuclear weapons tests has been signed by more than one hundred states. It can be said with certainty that this treaty has found ardent response and approval among all people of good will.

Our governments have repeatedly noted that the test ban treaty represents a document of great international significance, and hope was expressed that the conclusion of this treaty would have a positive effect on the international climate, on relations between states. Indeed, the conclusion

* On the first page under the main text is printed: "TO HIS EXCELLENCY
Mr. John F. Kennedy, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Washington
(TO HIS EXCELLENCY
Mr. Harold Macmillan,
PRIME MINISTER OF GREAT BRITAIN
London)".

50