[Signal Copy]

Dear Premier Khrushchev,

I am confident that you share my deep concern about the circumstances surrounding President Kennedy's death. It is becoming increasingly evident from unofficial information obtained during investigations conducted by Mr. Mark Lane, that Mr. Kennedy was killed not by Lee Harvey Oswald, but by someone else. For your information, certain documents are attached to this letter, including my article titled: "Sixteen Questions Regarding the Assassination."

I have a very important request for you. Would you be able to provide me with the Soviet dossier on Lee Harvey Oswald, which was provided to the American government. My motives in requesting it are that I have very important information concerning the circumstances of the President's death, and before making it public, I would like to have all related materials, especially Soviet information about Mr. Oswald. I write this strictly confidentially, and I await your response with great concern and interest. I hope that in the interests of peace you will find it possible to provide me with this material. If this proves possible, I will follow your advice regarding whether or not to disclose the fact of its transfer to me.

With best wishes,
Sincerely yours, Bertrand Russell.

VASEV

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 186 - 187. Copy. Typewritten text on the cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of the USSR MFA.

No. 75
Note from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko and KGB Chairman under the USSR Council of Ministers V.E. Semichastny to the CPSU Central Committee regarding the response to B. Russell

No. 2337/GS                                                                                                               July 29, 1964

Secret. Copy No. 1

TO CPSU CC

On July 22 of this year, Bertrand Russell addressed Comrade N.S. Khrushchev through the USSR Embassy in London with a request to provide him with a copy of the Soviet materials dossier on Lee Oswald, which had previously been transferred by the Soviet government to the US government.

193