Special examiner

to Minsk with the purpose of gathering information about the stay of L.H. Oswald there, who was charged with the assassination of President Kennedy. Tanner also requests to provide him with information about Oswald and particularly about the letters which, according to the New York Times editorial office, he sent to members of the Soviet government.

According to existing procedures, foreign correspondents arrange their departure from Moscow to other USSR cities through the Press Department of the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Visas and Registration of Foreigners (OVIR).

Denying Tanner's trip to Minsk can be interpreted as an attempt to conceal certain circumstances related to Oswald's stay in the USSR.

At the same time, Tanner's trip to Minsk, and possibly other correspondents following his example if permitted, would allow correspondents on site to gather material for tendentious reports by interviewing people who worked with Oswald or had contact with him and his wife, which could provide new fuel for the noise surrounding Oswald's personality and his stay in the USSR. Recently, however, judging by press reactions, after Oswald's death his personality is becoming secondary and anti-Soviet noise is gradually subsiding.

Considering all this, the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs and KGB under the USSR Council of Ministers consider it inappropriate to delay the decision on Tanner's permission to travel to Minsk. In case Tanner reapplies to the Press Department of the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he could be verbally informed that the facts concerning Oswald's temporary stay in the Soviet Union and his departure from the USSR are known to the US government, and therefore there is no need for any additional information gathering.

In case other foreign correspondents submit requests for trips to Minsk, proceed from the position that approving such trips at present is inappropriate.

Draft resolution attached¹⁵⁵.

Please review.

A.GROMYKO                                V.SEMICHASTNIY
                                         [Attachment]
                                         Translation from English
"New York Times"
Moscow Bureau

26 November 1963

Head of Press Department
USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Moscow

Dear Mr. Zamyatin,

As you know, the "New York Times" has been very actively calling for clarification of the circumstances surrounding the death of President Kennedy and Lee Oswald, as well as

122