Signal copy

To the Honorable Dean Rusk,
Secretary of State of the State Department,
Washington, District of Columbia.

Dear Secretary of State Rusk:

As you know, the commission, of which I am chairman, was tasked by the president to investigate all aspects of President Kennedy's assassination in order to present a comprehensive report to the American people. In particular, we are engaged in collecting all possible information about the life and biography of Lee Harvey Oswald, who, while under arrest in Dallas on charges of killing the president, was, in turn, killed.

The Commission has already heard testimony given by his wife Mrs. Marina Oswald, his mother Mrs. Marguerite Oswald, and his brother, Mr. Robert Oswald. We have also received statements and documents concerning Lee Harvey Oswald from other sources, including Soviet Embassy consular files in Washington, which Ambassador Dobrynin provided to the State Department. This consular file primarily concerns correspondence between the Soviet Embassy's consular department and Mr. and Mrs. Lee Harvey Oswald during 1962-1963.

The Commission found useful material provided by the Soviet Embassy in the consular file covering 1962-63, after Lee Harvey Oswald returned from the Soviet Union with his Soviet-born wife Marina and their infant daughter. However, the Commission lacks material concerning 1959-62, during which Lee Harvey Oswald resided in the Soviet Union. For the Commission's work and to present the American people with a complete report on Lee Harvey Oswald's life and character, it would be particularly valuable if Soviet authorities could provide the United States government with additional details about his activities while living in the Soviet Union, including copies of any official documents that Soviet authorities might find possible to provide.

The Commission is particularly interested in information about the following aspects of Lee Harvey Oswald's life in the Soviet Union:

1. Copies of any documents relating to medical and psychiatric examinations and treatment of Lee Harvey Oswald, especially those connected with his treatment in October 1959 when, according to Lee Harvey Oswald's diary, Intourist guide Rimma Shirokova found him unconscious in his hotel room after his suicide attempt and sent him to the hospital.

2. Copies of any documents relating to medical and psychiatric examinations and treatment of Marina Oswald conducted in her adult life, especially those connected with any treatment around October 1961 when, according to Lee Harvey Oswald's diary, she was treated for nervous exhaustion.

180