Signal Copy

Born in Dvinsk, Arkhangelsk region, lost mother early and lived in Leningrad in the family of stepfather, a worker at the Leningrad Coke Gas Plant. After graduating from Leningrad Pharmaceutical College in 1959, moved to Minsk and lived with maternal uncle, an employee of financial department PRUSAKOVA I.V.

Shortly after marriage, in July 1961, PRUSAKOVA was criticized for lack of initiative at the hospital's Komsomol meeting and expelled from VLKSM ranks because she did not participate in any Komsomol work, and during the discussion of her personal case made incorrect statements.

Characteristically, by this time it was already known that OSWALD had become disillusioned with his life plans in the USSR, abandoned his initial intentions to enter a technical university or dedicate himself to translation work. Thus, on January 6, 1961, in one of the conversations OSWALD stated that "he is not convinced that socialism is a more progressive phenomenon, that he does not see ways to objectively evaluate socialism's advantages over capitalism. There can be no objectivity here," he continued, "as every person's judgments are consequences of their upbringing, which entirely determines that person's views. In the USSR there are restrictions that he dislikes and which in his view are negative."

When asked by an acquaintance why he came to the USSR, OSWALD said on January 13, 1961, that he was a lonely person and it didn't matter to him where to live.

During his stay in Minsk, Lee Harvey OSWALD was a member of the factory sports society of fishermen. He also acquired a double-barreled hunting rifle and went hunting two or three times, which took place before his marriage. OSWALD shot very poorly. He willingly accepted game from his hunting companions.

He was a member of DOSAAF*. Had a membership card of this society. It is possible that OSWALD could have taken it with him when departing for the USA.

OSWALD took no part in DOSAAF work, did not undergo any shooting training courses and did not participate in shooting activities.

In December 1960, OSWALD established correspondence with the US Embassy in Moscow and began seeking opportunities to return to America; to resolve this matter, the American consulate invited him to Moscow. In June 1961, OSWALD and his wife visited the American embassy, then began processing their departure from the USSR. OSWALD and his wife concealed their plans from those around them. Nevertheless, measures were taken to persuade PRUSAKOVA to abandon her intention to go to America, in particular, her uncle had several such conversations with her. However, this yielded no results, and after the case was given official status, the KGB under the Council of Ministers of Belorussian SSR raised the question before the KGB under the Council of Ministers of the USSR about allowing them to leave the country. Considering that

*Here and further in the text, correctly - DOSAAF.

164