[Signal copy]

socialist countries and thereby escalate the Cold War and increase international tension.

Where is the logic in reasoning that a non-aggression pact is not needed?

The U.S. President* speaks about ending the Cold War. We welcome such statements. However, as they say**, if A is said, then B must also be said, good statements and appeals must be supported by practical actions.

Question. President Kennedy specifically emphasized the issue of banning nuclear tests and disarmament.

How do you assess the prospects for reaching an agreement on the prohibition of nuclear tests and, in particular, the upcoming negotiations in Moscow on this issue?

Answer. Negotiations on the cessation of nuclear tests, as is known, have been ongoing for several years. And now in Geneva, many speeches are being made on this topic.

What is the stumbling block? Western countries have put forward their condition about a certain number of inspections for concluding an agreement on the cessation of nuclear tests. What do they want? They essentially want Soviet territory to be open to spies from NATO military headquarters.

The advancement of this requirement indicates that Western governments base relations between nuclear powers on distrust. But if we take such a position, it becomes impossible to resolve any disputed international issue. It turns out to be something like the tale of the white bull: we don't trust you, so you don't trust us.

The Soviet government has stated and continues to state that it will not agree to provide our country's territory for inspection purposes that amount to espionage. Science has proven the possibility of detecting nuclear explosions through national means of control. This, we think, is well known to the President himself, and presumably to the audience he addressed in his speech. Moreover, we have agreed to accept the proposal of British scientists – and we repeat this agreement now – to deploy a limited number of automatic seismic stations for observation purposes.

National detection means combined with automatic seismic stations provide reliable guarantees to identify any possible attempts to violate the agreement on the prohibition of nuclear tests. As is known, we have given consent to conduct two or three inspections to monitor the cessation of underground tests, and this was done by us for political considerations. This was, so to speak, a step toward meeting the wishes of the other side. It is regrettable that this proposal of ours was not properly appreciated by our negotiating partners.

*After the word "USA" the word "many" is crossed out.
**Original text "However, it is said,..."

27