Signal copy

practically perform the functions of an international gendarme, conduct military operations, suppressing national liberation movements.

And what about the US trampling on the sovereign rights of other states?

The most outspoken US political figures - and they in many cases occupy quite high positions - directly call for open and even armed intervention in Cuba's internal affairs, seeking to impose on the Cuban people arrangements favorable to US imperialist monopolies.

If we take President Kennedy's statement about ending the "cold war" and strengthening peace to its logical conclusion, then it is necessary to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of other states, respect their sovereignty, observe international law norms and not just in words but in deeds respect the UN Charter, eliminate military bases which serve as a springboard for aggression against other states.

Or take such a rather clear issue as the conclusion of a non-aggression pact between NATO countries and Warsaw Pact member states. An agreement on this matter would only bring a thaw in the political atmosphere. After all, it's not about territorial or other concessions, because concluding such a treaty would bring equal benefits to all countries that sign it. Despite this, Western countries say that such a treaty should not be signed. They explain this by saying that we are all UN members, whose Charter provides for non-aggression between countries. But if they refer to the UN Charter providing for non-aggression, then why did Western powers create aggressive blocs? Talk about NATO being created for defensive purposes is talk for naive people. After all, many officials of this military alliance do not hide its aggressive nature, its orientation against the Soviet Union and other socialist countries.

It turns out like this: they justify even the creation of military blocs to create tension in the world, but when it is proposed to conclude a non-aggression pact, they say such a pact is not needed. Yet it is clear to everyone that a non-aggression pact would be a positive factor in improving relations between countries.

Some figures in the West brazenly declare that a non-aggression pact should not be concluded because it would lead to reduced tension, and improved relations between states is not advantageous to them. The goal of such figures is to support revanchists, constantly threaten the German Democratic Republic and other

[Footnotes:]
a Original text "How would Americans look at it if the United States were surrounded by a ring of Soviet military bases aimed against the USA? And what about the US trampling on sovereign rights of other states?"
b Original text "...directly call for intervention in Cuba's internal affairs..." Pravda B.N. Ponomarev.
c Original text "It is asked, if the UN Charter provides for non-aggression,..."

26