Signal copy

18 countries on disarmament: Ch. Stelle, consultant of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, A. Dean, Deputy Assistants to the US Secretary of State R. Davis and J. Grinfield, Deputy Assistant to US Secretary of Defense W. Bundy, as well as US Ambassador to the USSR F.D. Kohler.

N.S. Khrushchev says he is glad to welcome D. Rusk and his accompanying persons who arrived for the noble cause that interests all humanity - signing the Treaty on banning nuclear tests in the atmosphere, in outer space, and underwater. The ban on testing is, figuratively speaking, a medical prescription. If someone opposes this, such a person should undergo psychoanalysis, since they do not understand that it is harmful to their health.

D. Rusk thanks for the warm reception given to him, and also for N.S. Khrushchev postponing his vacation to be present at the Treaty signing.

He conveys warm greetings to N.S. Khrushchev from Kennedy and says that he eagerly awaits conversations with N.S. Khrushchev and members of the Soviet government.

He notes that if everyone from the USA who sought to be present at the signing had come to the Soviet Union, it would have been perceived as an invasion.

N.S. Khrushchev says that we welcome such "invaders." He thanks D. Rusk for the kind words and expresses gratitude to Kennedy for his good wishes and for the correct assessment of this historic act.

This should be considered an initiative undertaken in the right direction, creating a good environment for solving major problems.

You and we represent antagonistic state systems, we have often used and use expressions of hostility towards each other and we should solve issues step by step. After all, even to fell an oak tree, one must first notch and saw it. A mother, teaching her child to walk, doesn't push him in the back, but teaches him to take small steps, otherwise he will bruise his nose or even his head.

Each such act of international significance gradually strengthens trust between us, leads to creating a favorable atmosphere. We highly value the actions of the President and the US government, the Senate and all American citizens who support the Treaty.

In our time, war can no longer be a tool for resolving disputes between states. Therefore, attention must be paid to developing the economy, culture, everything that meets human needs and brings joy. We must end the arms race that leads to catastrophe.

Of course, our social systems are different and we cannot convince each other on this issue.

31