[Signal copy]

preparations for the president's arrival. Despite immediate subsequent denials, the FBI later admitted that its agents did indeed try to meet with Oswald two weeks before the assassination, however, they allegedly did not find him at home.

3. Oswald denied that at the time of the assassination he was in the book depository and claimed that he was at the movie theater at that time. Furthermore, American press noted contradictions between the testimony of the landlady of the house where Oswald rented a room, who saw him entering the house right after 12:45 PM on November 22, and police data according to which Oswald was in the book depository building at this time, i.e., 12 blocks away from his home.

4. The circumstances under which the shots at Kennedy and Connally were fired (relatively long distance, moving target, extremely short time period in which the shots were made) and the fact that the bullets hit, with great accuracy, only the clearly pre-selected targets without hitting other people in the car, definitely suggest high marksmanship of the shooter (or shooters) and sufficient technical sophistication of the weapon used.

However, there are highly contradictory data about how well Oswald handled firearms. Perhaps the prevailing opinion now is that Oswald was not a very good shooter.

Furthermore, the rifle from which Kennedy was allegedly killed is of a very outdated model. Tests conducted by the American hunting society and police on a similar rifle indicate that it is practically impossible to make three aimed shots in 5 seconds (i.e., the time in which three shots at Kennedy and Connally were actually made) with reloading after each shot unless using a special pad. In this regard, the press draws attention to the fact that the police still evades answering the question whether such a pad was used during the assassination attempt on the president.

No less doubts are expressed in connection with the circumstances of Oswald's murder.

1. The time when Oswald was to be transferred to the county jail was announced in advance and correspondents were allowed to be present, although the police received numerous anonymous messages that Oswald's murder was being planned during his transfer.

2. Despite police assurances that all measures were taken to clear the premises of unauthorized persons, J. Ruby managed to enter there unhindered, although many police officers knew him by sight and were aware of his dubious past (Ruby was a nightclub owner in Dallas, previously closely connected with Chicago gangsters, had been arrested by police several times in recent years, although he

145