[Signal copy]

N.S. Khrushchev notes that D. Rask does not want to pronounce the word "socialist," but calls these countries "lying to the east." We will teach you to pronounce this word, says N.S. Khrushchev.

D. Rask remarks that this is not difficult, as some people call the USA a socialist country.

N.S. Khrushchev says it would be interesting to look at such a person.

D. Rask says that he recently visited Yugoslavia and got the impression that in the USA, the state participates in economic life to a greater extent than in that country. Rask notes that the term "incentives" has recently been in use in socialist countries.

N.S. Khrushchev says that there were indeed disputes with some communists about moral and material factors. We believe that during the transition period, the influence of these factors should intertwine.

Regarding capitalism, in its time it was a progressive phenomenon compared to feudalism. But socialism, communism inevitably comes to replace capitalism, which is the highest social formation compared to all previous formations. Without capitalism, there would be no Marx, and in this case, humanity might not have gone beyond the legends of Christ and Campanella's dreams.

D. Rask says that he heard about the content of conversations between the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission Seaborg, Ministers Udall and Freeman with N.S. Khrushchev and other Soviet officials. They believe there is a wide range of issues on which agreement could be reached. In infantry, when advancing on a broad front, sometimes an obstacle appears in some place, but the advance as a whole does not stop because of this. Similarly, both the USA and the Soviet Union could cooperate in space exploration, atomic energy, medicine, without forgetting about fundamental issues. Rask expresses desire to discuss such issues during his stay in Moscow.

N.S. Khrushchev says that we are ready to discuss even larger issues.

D. Rask notes that, not being authorized to speak on behalf of the Senate, he would like to ask Senator Fulbright to say a few words.

D. Fulbright says that he had the opportunity to meet with N.S. Khrushchev four years ago in the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee. Fulbright says that he is not a diplomat but a politician and believes that all disagreements can be overcome, as it was in the case of disagreements between the North and South USA. The goals of the Soviet and American governments are the same, only the methods of achieving them are different. Both governments strive to improve people's lives. It is thought that the differences between the two countries are not as great as they seem. After all, some accuse the Soviet Union of developing capitalism there.

33