[Signal copy]

3. Copies of any documents evidencing drunkenness, disorderly conduct, indecent behavior, or any other abnormal behavior of Lee Harvey Oswald, regardless of whether it was criminal or not.

4. Copies of correspondence between Lee Harvey Oswald and Soviet authorities regarding his request to reside in the Soviet Union and obtain Soviet citizenship.

5. Copies of correspondence between Lee Harvey Oswald or Marina Oswald and Soviet authorities regarding their efforts to leave the Soviet Union.

6. Copies of documents about Lee Harvey Oswald's places of residence and work in the Soviet Union.

7. Copies of any statements, before or after President Kennedy's assassination, which Soviet citizens who knew Lee Harvey Oswald during his stay in the Soviet Union wished to make, and which relate to the above matter or could be of interest to the commission in any way.

The Commission has asked me to write to you regarding the above and, if you agree, to request the Soviet government for any assistance it may deem possible to provide in order to shed additional light on Lee Harvey Oswald.

Sincerely yours,
(signed) Earl Warren
Chairman.

A. DOBRYNIN

REFERENCE: No. 485-487 (incoming No. 14153) dated 24.III.64 Comrade Dobrynin reported about the conversation with Ransom on March 24, during which the latter requested additional information about Oswald for the period of his stay in the Soviet Union from 1959 to 1962.

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 471. L. 158-162. Copy. Typewritten text on cipher telegram form of the 10th Department of USSR MFA.

No. 69
Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR MFA
regarding the visit to the Soviet embassy by L.H. Oswald's mother

Spec. No. 544-546                                                                                           April 1, 1964
Washington
                                                                                                                              TOP SECRET
                                                                                                                              Copy No. 2

Oswald's mother visited the Embassy. In conversation with counselor Zinchuk, she said that the purpose of her visit was to obtain possible materials about her son's stay in the USSR.

[Stamp on the first page at top: "To Khrushchev N.S."]
181