Signal Copy

Questions related to the situation developing around Cuba (For everyone except Havana, which was given detailed information). Speaking about Soviet-American relations, Kennedy mentioned the so-called Cuban problem, expressing in general terms hope that this problem would not escalate.

In connection with this, Comrade Gromyko drew the president's attention to the fact that Cuba is under constant pressure from certain forces. The territory of Cuba is subjected to raids by "unidentified" aircraft, which drop bombs on industrial facilities and populated areas of the country. It was emphasized that if the US government truly wanted to put an end to such provocations against Cuba, such provocations would cease.

In response, Kennedy stated that the US government had already taken a number of measures to stop such actions. Now, for example, hostile aircraft raids on Cuba have almost completely ceased.

From our side, it was indicated that hostile aircraft are still continuing to take off from somewhere and conduct raids on Cuban territory. If such aircraft are taking off from the territory of any Latin American country, said Comrade Gromyko, then, in our conviction, such practice would hardly continue if the US government gives appropriate advice to its allies in Latin America.

Kennedy acknowledged that in the last two cases, one aircraft took off from the territory of a Latin American country, while another took off from Florida territory. He indicated that it is difficult, they say, for the US to control flights of small sport aircraft from private airfields in Florida.

To Comrade Gromyko's remark that it is, of course, difficult to convince anyone that US authorities cannot control aircraft flights, even small ones, from their own territory and that it is necessary to put an end once and for all to any raids on Cuba, the president said that after receiving the message from the head of the Soviet government N.S. Khrushchev, the US government had already taken certain measures to stop such actions against Cuba. The US, Kennedy stated, "does not intend to attack Cuba."

During conversations with the American side, the question of Soviet military personnel's presence in Cuba was also raised. Kennedy asked what the number of this personnel would be in Cuba, for example, in six months.

To this, the Americans were told that Soviet military personnel is in Cuba by agreement with the revolutionary government and questions of its numbers and duration of stay are exclusively within the competence of the governments of the USSR and the Republic of Cuba.

69