Signal Copy

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 329. L. 51 - 54. Copy. Typewritten text on USSR MFA 10th Department cipher telegram form.

No. 67
Cipher telegram from USSR Ambassador to USA A.F. Dobrynin to USSR MFA
regarding meeting with US Secretary of State D. Rusk on the matter
of transferring additional materials about L.H. Oswald's stay in the USSR

Special No. 485 - 487                                    March 24, 1964
Washington                                               TOP SECRET
                                                        Copy No. 12
                                                        URGENT

Visited Rusk today at his request.

Rusk said that the US government highly values the cooperation of the Soviet government, which it provided on its own initiative regarding the Oswald case, by instructing the embassy to transfer copies of correspondence between its consular department and Oswald and his wife for the period from 1962 to 1963. The US government would be grateful if the Soviet government could provide any additional available information about Oswald during his stay in the Soviet Union from 1959 to 1962. The Warren Commission, investigating the Oswald case, has expressed several requests in this regard, which are attached to the Secretary of State's note.

While transmitting this note along with a copy of Warren Commission chairman's letter, Rusk emphasized that this request is confidential and they understand the somewhat unusual nature of their appeal, but are guided by the act of good will shown initially by the Soviet government. Of course, Rusk added, this only concerns information available to Soviet authorities, as on some points, as the American side understands, it may not be available to the Soviet side. Rusk mentioned in passing that during the preliminary work of the Warren Commission, much data emerged indicating Oswald's significant psychological instability, and that similar data might exist in the Soviet Union from when Oswald lived there.

He then made a remark that, for example, one of the American tourists who visited Oswald in the Soviet Union, apparently in 1959, found him in his room in a semi-conscious state (whether he was drunk or having some kind of seizure, we don't know exactly, said Rusk, as this is very fragmentary information received long

*On the first page at the top stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."
177