[Control copy]
No. 17
Resolution of the Presidium of the Central Committee of the CPSU
"On measures in connection with the assassination of US President J. F. Kennedy"

No. P125/1                                                                                                                    November 23, 1963

1. Approve the text of the telegram from Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. Khrushchev to US President L.B. Johnson (Appendix 1).
2. Approve the text of the telegram from Chairman of the Presidium of the USSR Supreme Soviet L.I. Brezhnev to US President L.B. Johnson (Appendix 2).
3. Approve the text of the telegram from Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers N.S. Khrushchev to Mrs. Kennedy - Jacqueline Kennedy (Appendix 3).
4. Approve the text of the telegram from N.P. Khrushcheva to Jacqueline Kennedy (Appendix 4).
5. Approve the text of the telegram from USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko to US Secretary of State D. Rusk (Appendix 5).
6. Publish the telegrams specified in items 1-5 in the press.
7. Instruct USSR Minister of Foreign Affairs A.A. Gromyko to visit US Ambassador F. Kohler in Moscow and express deep condolences from the Soviet government regarding the villainous assassination of US President J.F. Kennedy.
Publish this announcement in the press.

[Appendices]
To point 1 of protocol No. 125
Appendix 1

To Mr. LYNDON B. JOHNSON
PRESIDENT OF THE USA
Washington
White House

I am deeply saddened by the news of the tragic death of the outstanding statesman - President of the United States of America Mr. John Fitzgerald Kennedy.

The death of J.F. Kennedy is a heavy blow for all people who hold dear the cause of peace and Soviet-American cooperation.

The villainous assassination of the US President at a time when, as a result of peace-loving peoples' efforts, signs of international tension easing were emerging and prospects for improving relations between the USSR and USA were opening up, causes indignation among Soviet people regarding the perpetrators of this vile crime.

77