[Signal Copy]

However, on the other hand, the Kennedy administration is unlikely to take any major steps regarding relations with the USSR before the end of the election campaign, especially those that would require discussion in the US Senate, let alone its approval. Kennedy assumes that the closer to the elections, the fewer chances he has to gather a majority in the Senate because Republicans will not vote for his support for tactical reasons. It should be emphasized that the US Congress as a whole still remains one of the main centers of anti-Soviet sentiment in the country. This is also where accusations of "appeasing communism" mainly come from, and the Kennedy administration seeks to prevent or neutralize such accusations whenever possible.

There is another important factor - the absence of unified opinion in the government regarding the Soviet Union in light of Soviet-Chinese disagreements*. According to unofficial data, there is still ongoing persistent discussion on this issue in US government circles. There are mainly three groups. The first consists of Acheson, Navy Secretary Nitze, Air Force Chief General LeMay, the Bundy brothers (one - presidential assistant, another - McNamara's assistant), influential senators Jackson, Russell and Dirksen (the first two deal with military matters in the senate, the latter is the Republican leader). This group, connected with the Pentagon, believes that Soviet-Chinese disagreements go deep into these countries' past and are of an irreconcilable nature. This means a "second front" has been created for the USSR, which, they say, forces Moscow to maneuver and avoid complications with the West. Hence the proposal: to increase pressure on the USSR and try to force it to make concessions, for example, in Berlin, using "show of force" on communications in West Berlin and on FRG-GDR borders.

The second group represents more political rather than military circles of the USA. It includes Rusk, ministers Hodges, Udall, State Department leadership: Ball, Harriman, Thompson, as well as Senator Fulbright. They believe that Soviet-Chinese disagreements, although sharp, are fundamentally ideological in nature and may be resolved between both parties at some point, especially if the USA exerts strong pressure on the USSR or PRC. Therefore, in their opinion, it is more expedient to continue, albeit unhurriedly, the "policy of agreements" with the Soviet Union to show it the prospects of developing diplomatic, cultural and other ties with the West. For these purposes, the group also advocates for known relaxation of trade restrictions with the USSR.

The third group, consisting of influential cabinet members, takes an intermediate position. It includes R. Kennedy, Defense Secretary McNamara, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Taylor, Intelligence Director McCone. At present

*Here and further underlined in the document text.

55