Signal Copy

No. 38
Coded telegram from First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers 
A.I. Mikoyan to the CC CPSU regarding meeting with US President L. Johnson

Spec. No. 2006-2011                                                   November 26, 1963 2:125
Washington
                                                                    TOP SECRET
                                                                    Copy No. 12
                                                                    URGENT

CC CPSU

On November 26, 1963, I had a meeting with the new US President Lyndon Johnson at the White House. When we entered his office, President Johnson came to meet us, greeted us and immediately invited us both to be photographed near his work desk. During the photography, the president thanked the Soviet government for N.S. Khrushchev's message of condolence, as well as for sending a special representative to participate in the funeral.

I replied that this fully corresponds with our thoughts and feelings.

Then Johnson handed me a message addressed to N.S. Khrushchev (text transmitted separately)126. He noted that his first action after entering the presidential office in the White House today was signing this message to N.S. Khrushchev. The President recalled that we had met with him four years ago at a dinner hosted by E. Johnston127. Recalling details, he told how I jokingly remarked that between Johnston and Johnson there was a difference of only one letter.

After the correspondents left, we sat at another table, and I began a conversation which took place in the presence of: from the Soviet side - A.F. Dobrynin, M.R. Smirnovsky and V.M. Sukhodrev, and from the American side - Harriman, Thompson, Tyler, Bundy and Akalovsky.

I said that before my departure to Washington, N.S. Khrushchev recalled his first meeting with Johnson in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Johnson was among those senators who asked questions to N.S. Khrushchev. After the conversation, Johnson and Fulbright accompanied N.S. Khrushchev to the car. At that time, Johnson, with American humor, told N.S. Khrushchev that it would be good for him to join the American Senate and that he would be an outstanding senator. To this N.S. Khrushchev then replied: No, let each of us better work in their own parliament and fight there for peace. I recall that after this conversation, correspondents asked You how the meeting went

*On the first page at the top stamp "to Khrushchev N.S."
113