Special exemplar

excludes their aggravation and, conversely, allows us to move forward, moving away from the danger of war and approaching the strengthening of peace.

I further noted that today I had an interesting conversation with President Johnson, whom I had met before when he was still a senator. I was favorably impressed by both the tone and content of this conversation, which I will, of course, tell N.S. Khrushchev and our other comrades about. It was very useful to get an impression of Johnson as the US President. Therefore, my visit, although it was connected with a sad event in US history, was still useful from the perspective of information about the new president and how he intends to conduct affairs.

You, as Secretary of State, I continued, of course, have a good understanding of all issues. You know our position just as well as we know yours. It creates an impression that the most important problems are either completely stagnant, or if there is any progress in their resolution, it is practically imperceptible.

Rusk replied that between us, of course, there are major disagreements. I don't mean by this, he continued, ideological differences, which are deep and may even be irreconcilable in nature. After all, N.S. Khrushchev often says that we won't be able to convince him to become a capitalist just as he won't be able to convince us to become communists. But in the broader plane of interstate relations, we maintain contacts between ourselves, although we approach some problems from different positions. We believe it is necessary to continue studying and discussing these problems and that we should not show impatience. It is not impossible that we will be able to move forward in resolving some of them. Perhaps we will manage to achieve success in resolving some minor issues, which can also be important from the psychological perspective of people, and maybe we will be able to come to a common opinion on some of these issues even without a formal agreement.

For example, regarding the arms race, it seems to me that there exists quite a real common interest in preventing an unrestrained and endless race, in establishing some limit or even reversing this race even before concluding a formal agreement on disarmament, while continuing to discuss the issue of general disarmament.

It would be possible to try to freeze military expenditures, although, of course, differences in our systems and in the structure of our budgets may not allow us to reach a formal agreement on this issue either. In other words, we must try to prevent the growth of armaments.

Regarding the problem of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, Rusk continued, I dare to express confidence that both our governments are against transferring nuclear weapons to third countries, which stems from our understanding of the nature of this

128