[Signal copy]

"The right to live one's own life without fear of destruction, the right to breathe the air as nature gives it to us, the right of future generations to a healthy existence."

Soviet leaders, particularly Khrushchev, responded positively to Kennedy's speech. The President's speech was published almost in full in "Pravda" on June 13, 1963, and on June 15, "Pravda" and "Izvestia" published an "interview" with Khrushchev - the Soviet leader's response to the American President's speech.

Preparation for the conclusion of the Moscow Treaty accelerated sharply. On July 26, U.S. Under Secretary of State W.A. Harriman arrived in Moscow and was received by Khrushchev. On August 5, U.S. Secretary of State D. Rusk and British Foreign Secretary A. Douglas-Home arrived in the Soviet Union to sign the treaty. After signing the treaty, Rusk toured the country, meeting again with Khrushchev in Gagra, where various issues were discussed - from German, Vietnamese, and Laotian questions to cooperation between the two countries in space, nuclear, medical, chemical-technological, and other spheres.

The success of the Moscow Treaty encouraged Soviet leaders. Khrushchev, in a confidential message to Kennedy on August 17, 1963, urged him "not to stop at what has been achieved, but to take further steps from our good start." "Of course, the path ahead will not be easy. However, we must follow it persistently and steadfastly, moving, though not hurriedly but also not slowing our pace, consistently working towards resolving pressing international problems, which would again serve the interests not only of our two countries but of the whole world," wrote Khrushchev.

The continuation of close contacts between the superpowers was marked by A.A. Gromyko's trip to the regular UN session in New York. In September-October 1963, the USSR Foreign Minister held a record 11 meetings with J.F. Kennedy, D. Rusk, and A. Douglas-Home. During the talks, questions of peaceful settlement of the German issue and non-aggression against Cuba were again raised. But most of all, steps towards further disarmament, reduction of military expenses, and signing of a Non-Aggression Pact between Warsaw Pact and NATO countries were discussed.

Since the presidential election campaign had begun in the USA, the American administration after signing the Moscow Treaty did not seek to make any

[Footnotes:]
7 Pravda. 1963. June 13.
8 See doc. No. 1.
9 See doc. No. 6.

3