Signal copy

"We had a pleasant conversation with President Johnson, and it should be said that we were satisfied with this conversation, which touched upon matters of mutual interest to both sides.

I speak of a favorable impression, as this is not my first meeting with President Johnson. We met during my visit to the USA in 1959. Even then we had pleasant conversations. And now I am especially pleased with this meeting."

When asked whether a meeting between the head of the Soviet government N.S. Khrushchev and the new US President L. Johnson was possible and likely in the near future, A.I. Mikoyan replied:

"We did not discuss this question, but we hold the opinion that the policy of the Soviet Union and the United States on this matter remains as it has been until now."

To a follow-up question from the correspondent about his personal opinion on this matter, A.I. Mikoyan asked: "And what do you personally think?"

When the correspondent replied that he would prefer to leave this decision to President Johnson's discretion, A.I. Mikoyan remarked: "And I would like to leave this decision to N.S. Khrushchev's discretion." ("Pravda", November 27, 1963)

In the second half of the day on November 26, A.I. Mikoyan met with US Secretary of State D. Rusk and had a one-and-a-half-hour conversation with him. After the conversation, correspondents asked A.I. Mikoyan if he could tell them about its contents.

A.I. Mikoyan replied: "I can, but not as much as you want. We discussed issues that have been touched upon in conversations between representatives of the Soviet Union and the United States more than once. We discussed international situation issues and, in particular, the problem of disarmament. We tried to find methods to move forward the matter of disarmament, which is moving forward very slowly or not moving at all. We found ways to continue negotiations on disarmament." ("Pravda", November 28, 1963)

Answering a question, A.I. Mikoyan also noted that European issues were discussed during the meeting with D. Rusk.

On the evening of November 26, A.I. Mikoyan had a meeting with British Prime Minister Alec Douglas-Home and Emperor of Ethiopia Haile Selassie, who were in Washington.

That same evening, comrade A.I. Mikoyan spoke before diplomatic staff of the Soviet embassy.

At a press conference on the evening of November 26, a White House representative announced that during the meeting between First Deputy Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers A.I. Mikoyan and US President Lyndon Johnson, various issues affecting

173