Special copy

responsibility and sincerity, - he continued, - spoke to you about our intentions regarding Cuba. We have no plans to invade Cuba and we have no grounds for invasion of other countries either through subversive activities or by any other means. I repeat, I only wanted to express the position of the American people in hope of your better understanding of this problem.

Then Johnson asked again if he understood correctly that today's exchange of messages was confidential.

Replied that we proceed from such understanding and added that he can be completely sure of this. Emphasized that Johnson can fully rely on Ambassador Dobrynin, and if he, Johnson, wants to convey something of confidential nature to him, no one in Washington will know about it except him, and in Moscow only N.S. Khrushchev and his closest associates will know, and it will never leak anywhere. We consider all this a necessary condition of our contacts.

Johnson replied that he understands this and wants to assure us that we will meet the same attitude from his side. Then he again expressed gratitude that we honored the memory of the late president and specially flew here to participate in Kennedy's funeral. Johnson further expressed hope that he will have the opportunity to meet and talk with Soviet representatives in the future and that these meetings will be fruitful. I expressed hope that new meetings between N.S. Khrushchev and him, Johnson in his new capacity will be useful and fruitful. Said that obviously the new president now has many matters and therefore I don't want to take up too much of his time. Although yesterday in Washington I "turned" 68 years old, I don't lose hope that sometime in the future there will be an opportunity to talk with him in more detail.

Characteristically, his second statement about Cuba was the result of Bundy's intervention, who had passed him some note before this.

The conversation proceeded in a good atmosphere. Johnson spoke cordially and amicably throughout. After the conversation, we went to the terrace, Johnson showed us flowers and shrubs planted by President Kennedy. There, on the terrace, Johnson said that Kennedy's daughter Caroline* was just playing in the garden, and that she would continue studying at the school on the third floor of the White House until the end of the year.

Before the conversation, it was agreed that it would last half an hour, since after us the president was supposed to receive Lübke and Erhard, however, our actual conversation with Johnson lasted about an hour.

A. Mikoyan

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 66. D. 328. L. 119 - 126. Copy. Typewritten text on the form of the 10th Department of the USSR MFA cipher telegram.

*As in the document text.

116