Signal Copy

Appendix: statement266.

Deputy Chairman of the Committee for State Security
under the Council of Ministers of USSR

A. Perepelitsyn

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 63. D. 65. L. 100. Original. Typewritten text. Signature-autograph in blue ink.

No. 89
Note from Secretary of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of USSR M.P. Georgadze to CC CPSU
regarding L.H. Oswald's petition for Soviet citizenship

No. 310s                                                                                                     October 21, 1959

TO THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF CPSU

American citizen Lee Harvey Oswald, who arrived in USSR as a tourist on October 15 of this year, has appealed to the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of USSR with a petition for USSR citizenship.

According to the statement, Lee Harvey Oswald, born in 1939, native of USA, after completing 3-year U.S. Marine Corps school served in occupation forces in Japan. In his statement, Oswald writes: "I want to acquire Soviet citizenship because I am a communist and a worker, I lived in a decadent capitalist society where workers are slaves. I have no desire to go to any other country."

Oswald's visa for stay in USSR expires on October 21 of this year.

The Committee for State Security under the Council of Ministers of USSR considers granting Soviet citizenship to Oswald inadvisable.

In our opinion, there are no grounds for satisfying Oswald's petition for Soviet citizenship and permission for permanent residence in the Soviet Union.

Comrade Voroshilov K.E. agrees with this opinion.

We request instructions,
                                                                                                                             M. Georgadze

RGANI. F. 3. Op. 63. D. 65. L. 99. Original. Typewritten text. Signature-autograph in blue ink.

*Text highlighted in italics is written in blue ink.
**Below the text on the left in purple ink is a note "Postponed. With comrade Georgadze's proposal agreed (without recording in protocol). 23.X.59. Keep in CC Presidium archive. 23/X-59. V. Malin."

227