[Signal Copy]

John F. Kennedy. At the airport before departure, A.I. Mikoyan made the following statement to representatives of Soviet and foreign press:

"We are departing for Washington to accompany on his final journey the President of the United States of America John Fitzgerald Kennedy, whose life ended so tragically as a result of a vile assassination attempt.

The Soviet government and its head Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev have instructed me to convey to the family of the late president, the US government leadership, and the entire American people sincere condolences regarding this grave loss." ("Pravda," November 25, 1963).

November 25, 1963

On November 25 in the morning, A.I. Mikoyan arrived in Washington. At the airport, he was met by US Deputy Secretary of State A. Harriman, Special Assistant to the Secretary of State L. Thompson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs R. Davis, Soviet Union Ambassador A.F. Dobrynin, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade S.A. Borisov, as well as responsible officials of the Soviet embassy, American and foreign journalists.

At the airport, A.I. Mikoyan made the following statement:

"On behalf of the Soviet government and personally from Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the USSR N.S. Khrushchev, I have arrived with a sorrowful mission to participate in the funeral of the outstanding US statesman President John F. Kennedy.

The Soviet people are deeply saddened by the tragic death of the president and share with the American people the grief over this grave loss. In the Soviet Union, John Kennedy was known as a great statesman and was respected. Respect was especially earned by the fact that the president made many efforts and contributed to finding solutions to disputed issues and strengthening mutual understanding between our countries.

I wish to express most sincere condolences to the family of the late president, the US government, and the entire American people." ("Pravda," November 26, 1963).

A.I. Mikoyan, among official representatives of foreign states who arrived in Washington for the funeral, participated in the funeral procession, memorial service at St. Matthew's Cathedral, and burial at Arlington National Cemetery.

After the funeral of US President J. Kennedy, A.I. Mikoyan, together with other heads of states, governments, and government delegations, visited the president's widow Jacqueline Kennedy at the White House. On behalf of the USSR government, its head N.S. Khrushchev, N.P. Khrushcheva, and personally from himself, A.I. Mikoyan expressed deep condolences to her regarding the tragic death of her husband - President Kennedy.

171