[Signal Copy]

At 13:15 in the Oak Cliff area of Dallas (approximately 2 miles from the site of the assassination attempt on the president), police officer Tippit was killed by three pistol shots. Shortly after, Lee Harvey Oswald, who worked at the aforementioned book depository, was arrested on suspicion of Tippit's murder at a nearby movie theater on Jefferson Street. During the arrest, Oswald offered armed resistance. Three witnesses identified Oswald as the person who shot Tippit when the latter stopped him on the street. However, Oswald refused to admit guilt in the police officer's murder.

That same evening, Oswald was charged with the attempted assassination of President Kennedy and Governor Connally. Oswald did not plead guilty.

On November 24 at 11:20 local time, when Oswald was being transferred to the county jail, he was killed by a pistol shot in the basement of the Dallas Police Department. Jack Ruby (Rubinstein), who shot Oswald, was arrested by police at the scene of the crime.

The Dallas Police Department officially announced that with Oswald's death, his case is considered closed. However, police authorities insist that Oswald is the assassin of President Kennedy and that they have sufficient physical evidence and leads to confirm this.

This accusation is also supported by the US Department of Justice. The department's representative Edwin O. Gutman stated, for example, on November 25, that "there are very strong leads indicating Oswald as President Kennedy's killer."

1.

Based on its investigations, the Dallas Police Department puts forward the following version of circumstances related to President Kennedy's assassination.

It is claimed that Kennedy was killed with a rifle found on the sixth floor of the aforementioned book depository building, which is allegedly confirmed by conducted ballistic tests. Three spent cartridge cases, food remnants, as well as empty boxes and crates behind which the shooter was hiding were also found there.

The police stated that the rifle (of Italian manufacture, 1938 model, with optical sight) belongs to Oswald. To confirm this, they refer to a photograph found in Oswald's home showing him with a similar rifle and pistol analogous to the one involved in Officer Tippit's murder case. An order for the mentioned rifle addressed to Klein's gun shop in Chicago was also discovered. Although the order was made under the name Hidell, it was established that it was written in Oswald's hand, and Oswald's wife allegedly confirmed that he

143