Special copy

do not support the demands of Negroes regarding equal pay for work, living in the same houses, etc., although they sometimes do not openly speak about it. The same segments of the population who were impressed by Kennedy's position on civil rights largely supported Kennedy in previous elections as well. Therefore, Kennedy can receive relatively few additional votes from this category of voters.

At the same time, the government's desire to pass the mentioned program through Congress significantly reduces, due to the opposition from Congress members - Southerners, the chances of passing another major government bill through Congress this year - on tax reduction, the adoption of which would give Kennedy much more political dividends (Kennedy, as we know from his aides, plans to conduct his election campaign under the slogan: "Peace and prosperity," and tax reduction is important for economic revival in the country).

Kennedy has tactical difficulties as well: while the Republicans have not put forward a specific candidate, it is difficult for the president and his supporters to choose an effective tactical line for the election campaign, as they now have to disperse attention among several candidates. The latter, however, concentrate their criticism on one person - Kennedy. His aide Bundy told me about this. As a result, although most observers continue to believe that victory will ultimately remain with Kennedy, it is becoming increasingly clear now - and Kennedy himself understands this perfectly well - that the upcoming struggle will be far from as easy as it might have seemed some time ago, and that he has reasons to fear all kinds of unexpected developments, especially if he makes any missteps from the viewpoint of election strategy.

The main thing for Kennedy at this stage is to achieve re-election as president. His steps in foreign and domestic policy will be largely subordinated to this.

Second. Regarding relations with the Soviet Union, the above-mentioned, in our view, means that the Kennedy government in the period before the elections will adhere to approximately the following line.

On one hand, it will seek to maintain the current slight improvement in relations between the USA and USSR and, if possible, prevent this favorable election situation from changing for the worse. Moreover, it will apparently show readiness to pursue time-distributed agreements on separate, relatively less complex or, as they say here, "peripheral" issues, which is useful for the president in domestic politics as well as evidence that his policy in this area is bearing fruit.

54